# "Capitalism, the smallest stage of protectionism" (2007)


## The Grand Unified Theory On The Economics Of Free   [*m0]

[...] In the last couple of weeks there’s been tremendous confusion among people from Scott Adams to CNN to various others [...] confused about what I’m actually saying — where they only pick up a tiny piece of the argument or confuse it with the arguments made by others. So, while I still think it was important to go through the details, now is as good a time as any to pull the whole theory together [...].

First off, and this is key, none of what I put forth is about defending unauthorized downloads. [...] This whole series is from the other perspective — from that of the content creator and hopefully explaining why they should encourage people to get their content for free. That’s because of two important, but simple points:

    1. If done correctly, you can increase your market-size greatly.
    2. If you don’t, someone else will do it correctly, and your existing business model will be in serious trouble

If that first point is explained clearly, then hopefully the second point becomes self-evident. However, many people immediately ask, how is it possible that giving away a product can guarantee that you’ve increased your market size? The first thing to understand is that we’re never suggesting people just give away content and then hope and pray that some secondary market will grant them money. Giving stuff away for free needs to be part of a complete business model that recognizes the economic realities. We’ll get to more details on that in a second.

From a high-level perspective, though, the reason that giving non-scarce products away for free will increase your market size goes back to the same Thomas Jefferson quote that we kicked the series off with:

    If nature has made any one thing less susceptible than all others of exclusive property, it is the action of the thinking power called an idea, which an individual may exclusively possess as long as he keeps it to himself; but the moment it is divulged, it forces itself into the possession of every one, and the receiver cannot dispossess himself of it. Its peculiar character, too, is that no one possesses the less, because every other possesses the whole of it. He who receives an idea from me, receives instruction himself without lessening mine; as he who lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me.

What Jefferson noted is the wonderful feature of a non-scarce, or infinite, good that it is effectively a free resource. Once created, it costs nothing to give to someone else, and you still retain the original. In fact, economists have finally realized that this is the very key to economic growth and progress. The infinite resource known as an “idea” that improves what was already there is what increases the size of a market. Or, putting it another way, that infinite resource of a new idea makes an existing scarce resource more valuable. It’s easy to understand that when it’s an idea applied to, say, a machine making it more productive — but it also applies to any infinite resource appropriately bundled with any scarce resource.

The way it works is actually quite easy and fits in with the same basic economics that’s always been in place. Knocking down the barriers of artificial scarcity opens up tremendous new opportunities — just as knocking down the artificial scarcity known as “protectionism” helps to grow markets by creating new opportunities. In this case, those new opportunities have only increased in number as we’ve gone digital, making more content infinite in nature. Where some people have trouble is that those new opportunities may be in different places than the existing opportunities — and those new opportunities may not all be capturable by the creator of the content. Indeed, there will be some externalities created by the free flow of an infinite resource. However, the total amount that any content creator can capture is still much larger than it was before. It’s one of those cases where getting 20% of a huge pie is much better than getting 90% of a tiny pie.

You just start by redefining the market based on the benefits of what you’re providing, rather than the specific product you’re selling. If you’re focused on selling the benefits, then discovering a better way to sell those benefits is seen as a good thing, rather than a threat. You then break down the different components that make up those benefits that you’re selling — and you begin to recognize that every bundle of goods and services that make up the benefit you’re selling has components that are scare as well as components that are infinite. In fact, if you look closely enough, you realize that any scarce product you buy actually has infinite components while any infinite good you see also tends to have scarce components.

Once you’ve broken out the components, however, recognizing that the infinite components are what make the scarce components more valuable at no extra cost, you set those free. Not only do you set those free, you have every incentive to create more of them, and encourage more people to get them. You break them into easily accessible bites. You syndicate them. You hand them out. You make them easy to share and embed and distribute and promote. And, yet, all the while, you know exactly what scarce resources those non-scarce goods are tied to, and you’re ready to sell those scarce resources, recognizing that the more people who are consuming the infinite goods, the more valuable your scarce resource is.

So, the simple bulletpoint version:

    1. Redefine the market based on the benefits
    2. Break the benefits down into scarce and infinite components.
    3. Set the infinite components free, syndicate them, make them easy to get — all to increase the value of the scarce components
    4. Charge for the scarce components that are tied to infinite components

You can apply this to almost any market (though, in some it’s more complex than others). Since this post is already way too long, we’ll just take an easy example of the recording industry:

    1. Redefine the market: The benefit is musical enjoyment
    
    2. Break the benefits down (not a complete list…): Infinite components: the music itself. Scarce components: access to the musicians, concert tickets, merchandise, creation of new songs, CDs, private concerts, backstage passes, time, anyone’s attention, etc. etc. etc.
    
    3. Set the infinite components free: Put them on websites, file sharing networks, BitTorrent, social network sites wherever you can, while promoting the free songs and getting more publicity for the band itself — all of which increases the value for the final step
    
    4. Charge for the scarce components: Concert tickets are more valuable. Access to the band is more valuable. Getting the band to write a special song (sponsorship?) is more valuable. Merchandise is more valuable.

What the band has done in this case is use the infinite good to increase the value of everything else they have to offer. They’ve increased their marketsize by recognizing how they can use the infinite goods as a free promotional resource and made the value of the overall ecosystem around them more valuable. Rather than playing small shows in tiny clubs that don’t pay very well, they get to play large venues with bigger covers. It’s certainly true that there are some externalities — where some people will enjoy the music for free without ever taking part in paying for the scarce components. But, when done right, you’ve increased your market so much that it more than covers the difference. Compare this solution to that of a band that sticks to the old way: they are then limited in the audience that will hear them — especially as more and more bands give their music away for free. Fewer people will be interested in going to their concerts or buying their merchandise or joining their fan clubs — when the benefits are so much greater for following other artists that actually give their music away for free. The end result really is a much bigger market with much greater benefit by expanding the market by using infinite goods to make the scarce goods more valuable.

So there you have it. After many months, one single summary of the economics of “free” and how it can be used to anyone’s advantage. [...] It’s not even about getting rid of copyright — just recognizing that copyright holders can actually be better off ignoring their own copyrights. It’s very much about showing the key trends that are impacting all infinite goods — and pointing out a clear path to benefiting from it (while making life more difficult on those who refuse to give up their old business models). And we’re giving it to you all… for free. So, enjoy.


## Economics Of Abundance Getting Some Well Deserved Attention   [*m1]

It’s great to see Chris Anderson getting lots of attention for his recent talk on “the economics of abundance,” because it’s exactly the type of thing that a lot of people have been discussing for a while — but still hasn’t permeated the mainstream. In fact, it’s quite similar to the talk I gave at the Cato Institute back in April in discussing why certain people seemed to have so much trouble grasping the economics of the digital age. Basically, it’s the problem that occurs when people focus too hard on the idea that economics is the study of resource allocation in the presence of scarcity. That only makes sense when there’s scarcity — and in digital goods, scarcity doesn’t exist.   [*M,*L]

Dave Hornik has a wonderful post about Anderson’s talk while Ross Mayfield is also discussing how he’s come to realize that the economics of scarcity doesn’t apply digitally. Now, if we stuck with the focus on “scarcity,” then I should be upset that these two are basically repeating the “idea” I discussed back in April. Those who keep harping on the importance of “property” and love to say that you can “steal” content might even say that this idea was “stolen.” That, obviously, is ridiculous. These are basic ideas that we have all realized is fundamental and a truth of economics. And, it’s hardly a new idea (which is why my one quibble with Anderson’s own post is his decision to call the idea of the economics of abundance a “radical attack”). Mayfield talks about those who helped him realize it, from Jerry Michalski to Howard Rheingold. In the comments to that post, Julian Bond brings up the ideas of Buckminster Fuller and and Alan Cooper. In my case, the inspiration came from many different people, including the teachings of Alan McAdams (my old mentor and professor) and the writings of Brian Arthur (who focused on “increasing marginal returns” rather than diminishing ones) and even back to Thomas Jefferson, who famously said:

    If nature has made any one thing less susceptible than all others of exclusive property, it is the action of the thinking power called an idea, which an individual may exclusively possess as long as he keeps it to himself; but the moment it is divulged, it forces itself into the possession of every one, and the receiver cannot dispossess himself of it. Its peculiar character, too, is that no one possesses the less, because every other possesses the whole of it. He who receives an idea from me, receives instruction himself without lessening mine; as he who lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me.

    That ideas should freely spread from one to another over the globe, for the moral and mutual instruction of man, and improvement of his condition, seems to have been peculiarly and benevolently designed by nature, when she made them, like fire, expansible over all space, without lessening their density in any point, and like the air in which we breathe, move, and have our physical being, incapable of confinement or exclusive appropriation. Inventions then cannot, in nature, be a subject of property.


So, no, it’s not a new idea at all — and yet, many people still don’t seem to want to understand it. They don’t believe that the free market can function with a lack of scarcity. It’s understandable why that could make some uncomfortable — but, it’s a fundamental misunderstanding based on this desire to force scarcity where there is none, just so economics can continue to be the study of scarcity. It’s this inability to get rid of that scarcity thinking that’s holding back a number of developments these days, and the more people who realize this and the more people talking about this, the better. And it is fitting with the theory of abundance. The more abundant this discussion is, the more likely people will grasp it. And, it’s especially exciting that someone like Chris Anderson is pitching it, because of his ability to take complex economic ideas and make them easy to understand, while getting people to listen. Hopefully, this is just the beginning of a widespread discussion about this topic.


## The Importance Of Zero In Destroying The Scarcity Myth Of Economics   [*m2]

A couple weeks ago, I wrote about all the well-deserved attention being placed on the idea of the economics of abundance. [...] Not everyone agrees with the concept, and that presents something of a challenge. It always interests me to figure out what the points of disagreement are in various intellectual debates. Larry Lessig recently quoted Al Gore in talking about the importance of “removing blocks.” Basically, the idea is that, when people disagree with you, look closely at the points on which they disagree, and try to figure out why that disagreement is occurring. You can often learn some very interesting things, while challenging your own opinion on things. I am planning a series of posts on this topic, to see if we might be able to clear out the blocks concerning the economics of digital content. To start it off, I’m going to recap the talk (and the reasoning behind it) I gave back in April.

When Jim Harper of the Cato Institute kindly invited me to be on a panel discussion about copyrights at Cato in their Washington DC office, I had a lot of trouble figuring out what I was going to talk about. I had been spending a lot of time trying to understand why there was such a split among folks who prided themselves on having a “free market” or Libertarian view of the world — but who seemed to completely disagree on the economics of content. It bothered me that people who started with the same fundamental toolbox (“the free market is good”) would end up at such widely divergent views. On the one side were folks like the Progress & Freedom Foundation, who felt that strong intellectual property laws (including things like stronger protections of DRM) were necessary to build an economy around content. On the other, were folks like myself, Tim Lee and David Levine, who saw that these intellectual property laws were basically government granted monopolies that could hold back economic progress.

As I mentioned in my recap to the panel discussion, I had my “Eureka!” moment on the airplane to DC. While I’d been reading through a bunch of text books on the economics of intellectual property, the history of intellectual property and the history of economics — none seemed to answer the question of where the breakdown occurred. So I gave it all up, and decided to reread a book I’d picked up at a used book sale a few years back, called “Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea” which is a fascinating history of the number zero — and the fact that not only did it take societies ages to even recognize the number zero, it was considered heretical in some areas for a while. Zero caused all sorts of problems in that it didn’t work like other numbers. It isn’t a number. It’s the absence of a number, and that screws up a lot of things. For thousands of years, it held back progress. You can’t have advanced math or physics without an understanding of zero — and the difficulty in accepting it was a real problem.

Of course, for all of us who learned about zero in elementary school, this seems laughable. How could zero be such a difficult concept to understand? Except, as I read the book, it occurred to me that it’s the exact same problem that was causing this breakdown in the discussion. It’s incredibly easy to misunderstand zero in economics. That’s because economics, we’re often taught, is the “science of scarcity” or understanding resource allocation in the presence of scarcity. [...] The “zero” changes all of that. Plugging a zero into an equation that expects a non-zero sends it haywire (think of what happens when you divide by zero) — and that leads people to think that the equation must be broken. So, for example, basic economics tells you that a free market will push prices towards their marginal costs. If their marginal costs are zero (as is the case with digital goods and intellectual property), then it says that price will get pushed towards zero. However, this makes people upset, and makes them suggest the model is broken when a zero is applied. They see a result where there is no scarcity, and it doesn’t make sense to them since they’ve always understood economics in the context of scarcity.

However, the point is that if you understand the zero, there’s nothing to worry about and the model works perfectly. It just requires a recognition that the scarcity doesn’t exist. Instead, you have abundance. You can have as much content as you need — and in that world, it makes perfect sense that there’s no costs, because without scarcity there need not be a cost. Supply is infinite, and price is zero. That does not mean, however, that there’s no business. Instead, it just means you need to flip the equation and use the zero to your advantage. Instead of thinking of it as forcing a “price” of zero, you think of it as being a “cost” of zero. Suddenly, you’ve lowered the cost of making something to nothing — and you should then try to use as much of it as you can. One simple example of this is to use that item that “costs” zero as a promotional good for something that does not have a zero marginal cost. When you realize how zero factors in, you realize that there’s nothing new or radical here at all. It’s just coming to terms with the idea that free market economics still works in the face of zero (in fact, it thrives) and there’s no reason to put in place government-sanctioned barriers to shape the market.


## The Economics Of Abundance Is Not A Moral Issue   [*m3]

[...] My last post on the importance of understanding “zero” in economics (and the fact that many of the problems people have in grasping the subject being due to a misunderstanding of zero) kicked off a really interesting discussion, that has me diverging from my planned third post in the series. Instead, I’d like to focus on one of the key objections people keep coming up with: the idea that this whole concept of the economics of abundance makes no sense because it means the creators of content make no money and they have a right to make money for their creative output.

It makes for a compelling emotional argument, but it is wrong on two major points. First, is the idea that it means creators of content can’t make any money. In fact, nothing can be further from the truth. What this series is leading up to is an explanation of how the opportunity for making money is even larger when you understand the economics, and don’t rely on directly selling the non-scarce good. However, for now we’ll leave that aside and focus on the second point: that there’s a right to make money. That’s completely false. *Economics is not a moral issue*. It doesn’t care about anyone’s “right” to make money from their creative output… and neither should you. The idea that anyone automatically has a right to make money from their creative output is wrong. Everyone has the right to try to make money out of their creative output, but if the market isn’t there, then there’s no money to be made.

For example, I could draw a picture on a scrap of paper and try to sell it as fine art — but no one would buy it, because my artistic drawing ability is pretty weak. That is, the market would properly value my drawing at something close to zero because there would be no demand for it. It has nothing to do with my right to make money. Similarly, in a situation where there’s a lack of scarcity, the market would properly value something at close to (or equal to) zero because there’s infinite supply. It has nothing to do with the moral issue of the creators right to profit from the creative output, and everything to do with the market at hand.

Perhaps part of where this gets confusing is that we have the current situation to fall back on: where content creators have had a good run selling their content. People have trouble then understanding why we would suggest that they should learn how to take the same content they’ve been selling for money and give it away free. The issue here is that the comparison is wrong. It’s not about a choice between being able to sell the content for money or giving it away for free, but a recognition of where the market is going. Historically, the content has been made scarce by connecting it to a specific medium (music on CDs, video on tape/DVD, etc.). What the internet is doing is breaking down the barrier of that scarcity, and that’s changing the market, pushing out the supply to infinite levels and putting clear pricing pressure on the content. People used to make a living selling buggy whips too, but the market changed, and they couldn’t any more.

In other words, it’s wrong to look at this as a “choice” between the old way and the new way, but to look at the market trends and recognize that the old way (pretending the content is scarce) won’t be viable any more — and when that happens, those who try to sell their abundant good based on scarcity will find that there is no market and no matter what “right” they have to try to make money, the market won’t care. Once you realize that, you can make the argument that content creators should wait until that market shift is complete to make the change, but as we go forward, I’ll hopefully make a convincing argument that it actually makes much more sense (and much more money) to begin shifting now, before being forced to shift. But, for that, we’ll have to wait a little longer…


## A Lack Of Scarcity Has (Almost) Nothing To Do With Piracy   [*m4]

[...] I started out with a discussion on how the number zero seems to screw up otherwise sensible people when it comes to economics, and followed that up with a post on the economics of abundance is not a moral issue. I had planned to move on to more about the actual economics, but the responses have delayed that for at least a little while.

Some of the complaints about the last piece highlighted one aspect that perhaps I had not made clear: unauthorized downloads, “piracy” or “stealing content” (if you want to use those phrases) have almost nothing to do with this discussion. People criticizing the posts on this topic keep going back to the idea that this is all some big defense of such practices when nothing is further from the truth. This series is very much written from the perspective of the producer of content, not the consumer. That is, we’re trying to make clear the basic economics so that the producer of the content can use that to his or her advantage. So, the lack of scarcity we’re talking about is based on the fundamental nature of the content: that it has zero marginal cost to make a new copy once the original is made. That’s a simple fact that has nothing to do with whether or not people are making unauthorized copies. That nature of the content is fundamental. So everything that we’re saying here applies just as much to content if there were no “piracy” at all. If there were an industry where there was a lack of scarcity, but no piracy, the information here would apply just the same.

Now, I do say “almost” nothing to do with piracy. The way that unauthorized copies play into this discussion is in the realization that they’re a fact of the marketplace. That is, they’re helping to accelerate the impact of that lack of scarcity, and only helps to highlight why the producers of content need to pay attention and make changes sooner, rather than later. Many of the recent actions taken by organizations like the RIAA, the MPAA and the BSA represent a fundamental misunderstanding of this fact. They believe two things that are absolutely wrong. First, that the lack of scarcity is only due to piracy and, second, that there’s some way to really stop piracy. Both of these things are wrong. The lack of scarcity is due to the fact that the content has zero marginal cost — which is true no matter what, and unauthorized copies are always going to be an issue. So, based on that, why not try to understand what happens when you have a lack of scarcity and how to profit from it, rather than fighting the obvious trend?


## A Lack Of Scarcity Feeds The Long Tail By Increasing The Pie   [*m5]

Continuing the ongoing series on economics in the absence of scarcity, today’s post is about rethinking the overall “pie.” One of the problems that people have in grasping some of this is that they focus very much on the “haves” in the existing model, rather than the “have nots.” In other words, in a world where scarcity is present, there are a limited set of options, and that means that many potential options never even make it to the market. This is what Chris Anderson talks about concerning “The Long Tail,” when businesses are entirely hit driven.

It’s what makes people ask the $200 million movie question, wondering how the same kind of huge blockbuster movies can be made without scarcity, or how rockstars will reach rockstar status. However, part of the problem with this is that while scarcity may create these types of huge hits, and abundance may decrease the likelihood of any individual work to be that same kind of hit, it expands the overall market by making it much easier for the long tail to exist. Without having to worry about stocking a limited number of shelves, an Amazon or a Netflix can carry unlimited products — opening up an entirely new market for movies that don’t need to reach the same level of blockbuster to be a success. In the same sense, a record label no longer needs to churn out a huge hit in Britney Spears to make up for all their duds, but can invest smaller amounts in many, many more artists, recognizing that it’s possible to be modestly successful with many more artists, adding up to a much bigger pie overall — and a much less risky business, since there’s less reliance on just a few big hits.

What’s important here is the recognition that as you remove scarcity from the equation, it may dilute the huge mega-successes, but inflates the ability to have a lot more moderate successes that add up to a lot more overall. The existing system, with scarcity, is often a bimodal distribution. There are the haves at one end, and the have nots (or the hoping to be the haves) all the way at the other end. However, as scarcity is removed, the distribution morphs into the famed power law curve. There are still hits at one end, though, there may be fewer of them. However, rather than simply jumping all the way from the super successful to the poor, starving and hopeful, you get a much nicer distribution from top to bottom of super successful, to moderately successful to less successful — but with a much great overall value under the curve.

Unfortunately, many of the complaints about economics without scarcity focus on the fact that some at the high end of the bimodal distribution (the “rockstars” or the “mega hits”) will lose some of that status without forced scarcity. But, the problem is that argument completely ignores what it does to the rest of the curve, moving up many who were at the other end (the poor, starving artists) into a position to be able to actually create a lot more product, rather than having to go out and find “a real job” that pays them a regular salary. The only “losers” here are a few people at the very, very top. Everyone else, however, benefits — and the net benefit is tremendous. It does involve a shift in business models for those who relied on the hits, but it’s a huge opportunity to expand a business while making it a lot less variable and a lot less dependent on catching one or two big hits to make the numbers work.


## Why The Lack Of Scarcity In Economics Is Getting More Important Now   [*m6]

[...] One of the points that a few people have brought up in trying to dismiss this whole explanation is that what we’re talking about is nothing new. Of course, that’s exactly what we noted in that very first post (linked above). It’s not new at all. It’s not about a different kind of economics at all. It’s simply about applying traditional economics into an area where it’s not as easily (or intuitively) understood — in part because traditionally economics has been taught as being about resource allocation in the presence of scarcity. Economics students aren’t taught to look at situations where scarcity is absent, and there’s an implicit assumption that economics breaks down in those cases or doesn’t apply. However, all that really represents is confusion that results from a “zero” being thrown into the basic economics equations. Once you understand the zero, basic economics applies. So, no, we’re not really talking about anything new — but we are explaining why the economics that many think breaks down at a certain point, actually works fine.

But why is this conversation happening now? Why has it become a bigger issue recently? Some have argued against my posts on this topic by saying that the system and business models we’ve had in place have worked for the past 200 hundred years, so why tinker now? The reason we tinker now is because the market has changed (and continues to change), and it’s removed the scarcity in places where it once existed — and that’s going to put tremendous pressure on existing companies. If they don’t change, they’ll be wiped out.

But, why has the market changed? That’s easy: the rise of computers and the internet. The increasing digitization of so many parts of our lives (moving atoms to bits, in the words of Nicholas Negroponte) has wiped out scarcity in a number of markets — and it’s only just begun. Amazon used the web to wipe out scarcity on book store shelves. Netflix did the same for rental shelves. Those are the obvious examples that have direct comparisons, but there are many that are not direct, and even trickier for traditional industries to deal with. Napster and its followers showed how scarcity in music could be wiped away. YouTube has been doing the same thing for video content. TiVo, by introducing the world to easy time-shifting, has shown how scarcity in the TV schedule can be wiped away. There are thousands of other examples, and more and more are happening every day. It’s the type of thing that will impact an awful lot of industries that don’t see it coming — which is why it’s important to understand the economics of what happens when scarcity disappears and you’re forced to shift your business model.


## History Repeats Itself: How The RIAA Is Like 17th Century French Button-Makers   [*m7]

[...] I took a bit of a break over the holidays to catch up on some reading, and to do some further thinking on the subject [...]. One of the books I picked up was one that I haven’t read in well over a decade, but often recommend to others to read if they’re interested in learning more about economics, but have no training at all in the subject. It’s Robert L. Heilbroner’s _The Worldly Philosophers_. Beyond giving readers a general overview of a variety of different economic theories, the book actually makes them all sound really interesting. It’s a good book not necessarily because of the nitty gritty of economics (which it doesn’t cover), but because it makes economics interesting, and gives people a good basis to then dig into actual economic theory and not find it boring and meaningless, but see it as a way to better understand what these “philosophers” were discussing.

Reading through an early chapter, though, it struck me how eerily a specific story Heilbroner told about France in 1666 matches up with what’s happening today with the way the recording industry has reacted to innovations that have challenged their business models. Just two paragraphs highlight a couple of situations with striking similarities to the world today:

    “The question has come up whether a guild master of the weaving industry should be allowed to try an innovation in his product. The verdict: ‘If a cloth weaver intends to process a piece according to his own invention, he must not set it on the loom, but should obtain permission from the judges of the town to employ the number and length of threads that he desires, after the question has been considered by four of the oldest merchants and four of the oldest weavers of the guild.’ One can imagine how many suggestions for change were tolerated.

    Shortly after the matter of cloth weaving has been disposed of, the button makers guild raises a cry of outrage; the tailors are beginning to make buttons out of cloth, an unheard-of thing. The government, indignant that an innovation should threaten a settled industry, imposes a fine on the cloth-button makers. But the wardens of the button guild are not yet satisfied. They demand the right to search people’s homes and wardrobes and fine and even arrest them on the streets if they are seen wearing these subversive goods.”

Requiring permission to innovate? Feeling entitled to search others’ property? Getting the power to act like law enforcement in order to fine or arrest those who are taking part in activities that challenge your business model? Don’t these all sound quite familiar? Centuries from now (hopefully much, much sooner), the actions of the RIAA, MPAA and others that match those of the weavers and button-makers of 17th century France will seem just as ridiculous. 


## Why Does TiVo Need Permission To Innovate?   [*m7a]

A couple weeks ago, we had the story of the MPAA and the NFL trying to force TiVo to stop its plans to add new features to their devices that would let a user send a recorded program to another device. While we discussed why this was a ridiculous move by both the MPAA and the NFL, a reporter at the Washington Post is now going one step further and pointing out that the real travesty is the fact that TiVo suddenly needs to ask permission from the government to innovate. The ability of companies to continually innovate and reinvent markets based on free and open competition is what helps drive this economy. When companies need to ask permission to add innovative features, and that permission needs to go through other companies, we’re destroying our ability to innovate competitively. Instead, companies outside of this country will build new systems with features that consumers actually want, while systems here are held back by regulations that serve no other purpose than to protect an adjacent industry that refuses to change with the times. It’s the worst form of protectionism — since no one will even admit that it’s protectionism. And, like all attempts at protectionism, the end result will be much worse for those these rules supposedly protect.


## Infinity Is Your Friend In Economics   [*m8]

Continuing our ongoing series looking at economics when scarcity is removed from markets, I wanted to go back to the early discussion on the importance of understanding zero in making sense of markets where scarcity is removed. That post discussed how many who believe economics requires scarcity do so because they believe economic equations break down when a zero is put into them. That is, they see a zero in the “marginal cost = price” statement and they say that the system must be broken, because you can’t have a market when the price is zero. However, that’s wrong. Zero works just fine, but you have to understand why.

The key actually isn’t in zero, but zero’s flip side: infinity. Just like many early societies had tremendous difficulty in coming to understand the concept of zero, the concept of infinity was incredibly difficult to grasp. Just as with zero, certain aspects of mathematics and physics stalled out without an understanding of infinity — and it would be a shame if the same happens for economics. However, just as with zero, many who look at the economics get scared off by infinity and assume it must break otherwise proven concepts. Throw an infinity into the supply of a good and the supply/demand curve is going to toss out a price of zero (sounds familiar, right?). Again, the first assumption is to assume the system is broken and to look for ways to artificially limit supply.

However, the mistake here is to look at the market in a manner that is way too simplified. Markets aren’t just dynamic things that constantly change, but they also impact other markets. Any good that is a component of another good may be a finished good for the seller, but for the buyer it’s a resource that has a cost. The more costly that resource is, the more expensive it is to make that other good. The impact flows throughout the economy. If the inputs get cheaper, that makes the finished goods cheaper, which open up more opportunities for greater economic development. That means that even if you have an infinite good in one market, not all the markets it touches on are also infinite. However, the infinite good suddenly becomes a really useful and cheap resource in all those other markets.

So the trick to embracing infinite goods isn’t in limiting the infinite nature of them, but in rethinking how you view them. Instead of looking at them as goods to sell, look at them as inputs into something else. In other words, rather than thinking of them as a product the market is pressuring you to price at $0, recognize they’re an infinite resource that is available for you to use freely in other products and markets. When looked at that way, the infinite nature of the goods is no longer a problem, but a tremendous resource to be exploited. It almost becomes difficult to believe that people would actively try to limit an infinitely exploitable resource, but they do so because they don’t understand infinity and don’t look at the good as a resource.


## Step One To Embracing A Lack Of Scarcity: Recognize What Market You're Really In   [*m9]

[...] Two weeks ago, in my post about the 17th century button makers and how they were quite like the RIAA in many ways got plenty of attention, and that kicked off a fun discussion. Many people (phew) saw the connection, but a few did not, and claimed that the situations were entirely different. The button makers, they claimed, were trying to stop anyone else from making buttons, while the RIAA has no problem with anyone else making music. Of course, this ignores the specific similarities (crying out for government help to defend a business model, treating customers like criminals, wanting to invade people’s private homes, etc.) that were pointed out in the post — but more importantly, it highlights one of the biggest problems that many who are in industries threatened by disappearing scarcity face: they don’t actually understand the market they’re in.

It’s interesting to note that it wasn’t horse-drawn carriage makers who became successful automobile companies. No, they ended up going out of business, because they too narrowly defined their markets as being the horse-drawn carriage market, rather than the road-based transportation market, or just the transportation market. Of course, that was something the railroad businesses could have claimed as well — but they also were too narrowly focused on being in the railroad business (and, some say, were the inspiration behind passing certain anti-automobile laws early on in the automobile’s history). The horse-drawn carriage makers, however, very much should have realized they were in the transportation market, and should have been always looking for ways to step up to provide better and better systems for local transportation. People weren’t buying horse-drawn carriages because they were horse-drawn carriages, but because they could use them to more easily get somewhere. Thus, when automobiles hit the scene, the smart horse-drawn carriage maker wouldn’t have looked at it as a threat, but as an opportunity to provide a better transportation system to his customers. But, that only works if he correctly defined the market.

In the case of the RIAA, contrary to the complaints in that button-maker post, they are not actually “making music.” The musicians make the music, and the RIAA hardly represents the musicians. The RIAA is the “recording industry” and they represent the interests of the record labels who, while they may claim are in the music business, appear to believe they’re really in the “music selling business” rather than (as they really are) the “music entertainment business.” They believe their job is to distribute music, promote it, and get people to buy it. They make money by keeping that system closed and locked down. If they recognized they were really in the “entertaining people with music business” they should only be ecstatic about new technologies and services that make their job easier. In the case of file sharing systems, that was a tremendous new distribution and promotion system all rolled up in one — and it cost them nothing. What a tremendous resource — if they were actually in the music entertainment business and wanted to make it easier to promote and distribute music. They could leverage that infinitely available, free resource to promote and distribute music and musicians, and then use that to make money in other ways (concerts, sponsorships, endorsements, appearances, fan clubs, etc., etc., etc.,) But by limiting the definition of what business they were in by what their existing business model said they were selling, they chose to fight it.

The same is very much true of the MPAA, who represents the movie studios, and still seems to think they’re in the business of selling movies. That’s not true. People don’t go out to the movies because it’s “a movie.” They go out to the movies to be entertained. They’re in the entertainment business, and the industry is falling down miserably by making the movie going experience dreadful. They’ve taken the entertainment part out of the entertainment business as they focus so desperately on holding onto the “movie selling business” and in the process, they’re finding it actually tougher to sell movies.

So, when it comes to the button-makers (who didn’t realize they were in the clothing accessories business), it really is the same situation. The entertainment industry cartels aren’t really fighting “competition.” They’re simply scared to death of the opportunity that’s staring them in the face, because they think they’re in a different business than they’re actually in.


## Why I Hope The RIAA Succeeds   [*m10]

[...] I have noticed something in the comments from the series of posts I’ve done. Plenty of people who seem to agree with what I’m writing make sure to add in something about how they hate the RIAA or the MPAA [...]. There’s also a running assumption that I clearly hate these organizations — and they equally dislike me.

While I have no clue about their feelings towards me, I should clarify my feelings towards them — which I would hope is clear from these posts. I do not hate the recording industry or the movie industry. [...] The point of this series is not to slam the organizations making these moves, but to help them. I hope they succeed, because it would be a lot easier for everyone involved. However, I do believe that their current strategies of alienating their best customers, relying on government protection, and pretending this is some sort of epic battle between good and evil aren’t just doomed to fail, they’re actively making things worse for themselves. What I write shouldn’t be viewed as hatred for these organizations, but suggestions on how they could create for themselves a much bigger and more successful market that doesn’t require everyone to hate them. I’m quite confident that the market for entertainment is only going to grow to tremendous levels going forward — and I believe these organizations have every opportunity to capture quite a bit of it (though, they’ve been throwing that chance away every day). It’s just a matter of recognizing the long-term strategic errors of their ways. [...]


## Saying You Can't Compete With Free Is Saying You Can't Compete Period   [*m11]

[...] I wanted to address the ridiculousness of the “can’t compete with free” statements that people love to throw out. If we break down the statement carefully, anyone who says that is really saying that they can’t compete at all. The free part is actually meaningless — but the zero is blinding everyone.

To explain this, it helps to go back to your basic economics class and recognize that, in a competitive market, the price of a good is always going to get pushed towards its marginal cost. That actually makes a lot of sense. As competition continues, it puts pressure on profits, but producers aren’t willing (or can’t for very long) keep selling goods at a direct loss. Sunk (or fixed) costs don’t matter, because they’ve already been paid — so everything gets pushed to marginal cost. That’s pretty well accepted by most folks — but it’s still misinterpreted by many. They tend to look at it and say that if price equals marginal cost, then no one would ever produce anything. That’s a misconception that is at the heart of this whole debate. The problem is that they don’t add in the element of time, and the idea that what drives innovation is the constant efforts by the producers in the space to add fleeting competitive advantages [...]. In other words, companies look to add some value to the goods that makes their goods better than the competition in some way — and that unique value helps them command a profit. But, the nature of the competitive market is that it’s always shifting, so that everyone needs to keep on innovating, or any innovation will be matched (and usually surpassed) by competitors. That’s good for everyone. It keeps a market dynamic and growing and helps out everyone.

So, let’s go back to the “can’t compete with free” statement. Anyone who says that is effectively saying that they can’t figure out a way to add value that will make someone buy something above marginal cost — but it’s no different if the good is free or at a cost. Let’s take a simple example. Say I own a factory that cost me $100 million to build (fixed cost) and it produces cars that each cost $20,000 to build (marginal cost). If the market is perfectly competitive, then eventually I’m going to be forced to sell those cars at $20,000 — leaving no profit. Now, let’s look at a different situation. Let’s say that I want to make a movie. It costs me $100 million to make the movie (fixed cost) and copies of that movie each cost me $0 (marginal cost — assuming digital distribution and that bandwidth and computing power are also fixed costs). Now, again, if the market is competitive and I’m forced to price at marginal cost, then the scenario is identical to the automobile factory. My net outlay is $100 million. My profit is zero. Every new item I make brings back in cash exactly what it costs to make the copy — so the net result is the same. It’s no different that the good is priced at $0 or $20,000 — so long as the market is competitive.

So why aren’t the same people who insist that you can’t compete with free whining about any other competitive market situation? Because they know that, left unfettered, the market adjusts. The makers of automobiles keep trying to adjust and differentiate their cars through real and perceived benefits (such as brand) — and that lets them add value in a way that they can make money and not have to worry about having products priced at marginal cost. If a company can’t do that, it goes out of business — and most people consider that a good thing. [...] But, when it comes to goods with a $0 marginal cost, even though the net result is identical to goods with a higher marginal cost, suddenly people think that you can’t compete? The $0 price makes no difference. All that matters is the difference in price you can charge to the marginal cost. Everyone else learns to differentiate — why can’t those who produce infinite goods do the same?

The answer is that they already do — even if they don’t realize it. Why do movies still cost more than $0? Because there’s additional value bundled with the movie itself. People don’t buy “a movie.” They buy the experience of going to the theater. People like to go out to the movies. They like the experience. Or people buy the convenience of a DVD (which is another feature bundled with the movie). They like to buy DVDs (or rent them) in order to get the more convenient delivery mechanism and the extra features that come with DVDs. In other words, they like the differentiated value they can get from bundled goods and services that helps justify a price that’s more than $0. Just as people are willing to pay more than the marginal cost (in some cases a lot more) to get that car they want, they’re willing to pay more for a bundled good or service with content — if only the makers of that content would realize it.

So the next time someone says “you can’t compete with free” ask them why? Every company that’s in business today competes with those who aim to undercut the price of their product — and the situation is absolutely no different when it’s free. It’s just that people get blinded by the zero and forget that the absolute price is meaningless compared to the marginal cost.


## Perhaps It's Not The Entertainment Industry's Business Model That's Outdated   [*m12]

[... A friend] suggested that despite the common wisdom many of us have suggested, the entertainment industry’s business models aren’t actually obsolete. What is obsolete is what people think the industry’s business model is. And, the worst thing is that the people most guilty of this are the industry execs themselves.

A few weeks back, one of the posts in this series was about recognizing what market you’re really in. I used the example of horse-drawn carriage makers, who mistakenly believed they were in the horse-drawn carriage market, rather than the personal transportation market — leading to troubles once the automobile came around. There’s an important hidden lesson in that. You can actually be succeeding in a market you don’t think you’re in.

[...] In fact, that’s what both the music and the movie industry already do. Everyone may think that you’re buying “music” or “movies” but that’s very rarely what you’re actually buying. You’re buying the experience of going to the movies. Or the ability to have the convenience of a DVD. Or the convenience of being able to listen to a song on your iPod. And, in many cases, it’s not just one thing, but a bundle of things: the convenience of being able to hear a song in any CD player, combined with a nice set of liner notes and the opportunity to hear a set of songs the way a band wants you to hear. It can be any number of different “benefits” that people are buying, but it’s not the “movie” or the “music” itself that anyone is buying.

So the problem isn’t that the industry’s basic business model is obsolete — it’s just that everyone thinks they’re actually selling music or movies, and that leads them to do stupid things like put DRM on the music to take away many of those benefits, or making the movie-going experience that much worse by treating everyone like criminals. What they’re doing, and why it’s hurting them, is that they’re actually taking away the features that they used to be selling — and missing out on opportunities to sell other benefits as well. So while we may still point out that the basic business model is obsolete, it may be more accurate to simply say that it’s the understanding of the business model that’s really out of date.


## An Economic Explanation For Why DRM Cannot Open Up New Business Model Opportunities   [*m13]

[...] I wanted to take a look at an issue that I mentioned in passing earlier this week concerning the ongoing insistence among the entertainment industry (and the DRM industry) that DRM somehow will open up new business models. I’d like to explain why, economically, that doesn’t make sense.

First, to clarify, I should point out that, technically, I mean that it doesn’t make sense that DRM could ever open up feasible or successful business models. Anyone can create a new unsuccessful business model. For example, I’m now selling $1 bills for $1,000. It’s a new business model (well, perhaps not to the dot coms of the original dot com boom), but it’s unlikely to be a successful one (if you disagree, and would like to pay me $1,000 for $1, please use the feedback form above to make arrangements). However, for a new business model to make sense, it needs to provide more value. Providing more value than people can get elsewhere is the reason why a business model succeeds. So, any new business model must be based on adding additional value.

The good news is that value is not a scarce concept. Unfortunately, there are too many in this world who view value and growth as a zero-sum game. [*E] They believe that there’s some fundamental limit on the possibility of adding value, and therefore, business models are about moving around a limited amount of value, rather than expanding it. It’s the same fallacy facing those who have trouble understanding zero and infinity in economics. The economist Paul Romer’s discussion on Economic Growth offers a concise explanation for this:

    Economic growth occurs whenever people take resources and rearrange them in ways that are more valuable. A useful metaphor for production in an economy comes from the kitchen. To create valuable final products, we mix inexpensive ingredients together according to a recipe. [...] If economic growth could be achieved only by doing more and more of the same kind of cooking, we would eventually run out of raw materials and suffer from unacceptable levels of pollution and nuisance. Human history teaches us, however, that economic growth springs from better recipes, not just from more cooking. New recipes generally produce fewer unpleasant side effects and generate more economic value per unit of raw material.

    Every generation has perceived the limits to growth that finite resources and undesirable side effects would pose if no new recipes or ideas were discovered. And every generation has underestimated the potential for finding new recipes and ideas. We consistently fail to grasp how many ideas remain to be discovered. The difficulty is the same one we have with compounding. Possibilities do not add up. They multiply.

Note that it’s the non-scarce products, the recipes and the ideas, that helps expand the value of the limited resources, the ingredients. You expand value by creating new non-scarce goods that make scarce goods more valuable — and you can keep on doing so, indefinitely. Successful new business models are about creating those non-scarce goods and helping them increase value. Any new business model must be based around increasing the overall pie. It’s about recognizing that creating value isn’t about shifting around pieces of a limited economic pie — but making the overall pie bigger.

DRM is fundamentally opposed to this concept. It is not increasing value for the consumer in any way, but about limiting it. It takes the non-scarce goods, the very thing that helps increase value, and constrains them. Those non-scarce goods are what increase the pie and open up new opportunities for those who know where to capture the monetary rewards of that value (within other limited resources). DRM, on the other hand, holds back that value and prevents it from being realized. It shrinks the pie — and no successful business models come out of providing less value and shrinking the overall pie. Fundamentally, DRM cannot create a successful new business model. It can only contain one.


## Recognizing That Just About Any Product Is A Bundle Of Scarce And Non-Scarce Goods   [*m14]

[...] In going through some of the debates and arguments over the past posts, I think one of the key things that people have trouble grasping is the fact that there are different components to anything that’s being sold — and that any product is really a bundle of a variety of things, which quite often have both scarce and non-scarce components.

So, if you’re buying a book, you’re buying the paper and the binding, as well as the words printed inside. However, you’re also buying the satisfaction or utility that you get from reading (or perhaps just owning the book). Or you may be buying the benefit of being seen with the book or being able to talk with others intelligently about having read the book. Or it may be an investment, where you are buying the ability to resell the book. This applies to just about any product. If you’re buying a couch, you’re not just buying the wood, stuffing and fabric, but the benefit of having the couch and being able to sit on it. You’re buying the belief that it will look good in your home and match with the rest of your living room. If you buy a car, you’re buying the materials that make up that car, but also the transportation and freedom it provides you vs. the alternatives. If you’re buying medicine, it’s not just the pills that you’re buying, but the relief that they provide. Most people recognize this intuitively, but sometimes in these discussions people forget that, and focus in narrowly on the core product itself that people think they’re buying (or sellers think they’re selling).

What’s noteworthy is that bundle may be different for different people. Some people buy houses solely as investment properties, while others intend to live there. The point, however, is that every product is a bundle of different components — and you can usually break those components down into scarce and non-scarce categories. In thinking about how to market any product, sellers are intuitively calculating the value of that bundle of things, even if they focus on just selling you one aspect of the bundle. Each of the different components (both the tangible and the intangible) are part of the “resources” or “inputs” that make up the product that’s being sold.

Of course, with any product, the producer of that product wants to reduce the costs of what they’re selling, while increasing the value to buyers. One of the easiest ways to do this is to pump up the non-scarce parts of what’s being sold — because that’s a very cheap way to increase value. Even if it had a large fixed cost upfront, once it’s created, it costs nothing additional (no marginal cost) to make use of that non-scarce good to help promote the bundled scarce goods and make them worth a lot more. So BMW makes good cars (a scarce resource), but the value is even higher due to BMW’s brand (a non-scarce resource). Last week we noted that movie theater boss Marcus Loew understood this years ago when he said: “We sell tickets to theaters, not movies.” He recognized that they were using a non-scarce resource (the movie itself) to make it possible to sell the scarce resource (seats in the theater). As you look around, you’ll begin to notice that you can find these types of things in almost any good. A candy store owner uses the non-scarce resource (enjoyment) to make the scarce resource (the candy) worth more. As long as you can bundle non-scarce resources to make scarce resources more valuable, there are ways to make money. The trouble comes about when you try to start selling strictly non-scarce resources by themselves… but we’ll save that discussion for later.


## Scarcity Isn’t As Scarce As You Might Think   [*m15]

[...] Last week, I talked about how when you looked carefully at just about any product, it was really a bundle of both scarce and non-scarce components, and highlighted a few areas where scarce goods had non-scarce components that people didn’t often think about. This week’s story is the flip side to that. It’s about recognizing where scarcity appears even when it comes to non-scarce goods. Even if this seems like a contradiction of the concept of non-scarce economics, it actually is quite important in understanding why traditional free market economics continues to work even when you plug zeros into the equations.

There are a few major areas where scarcity still comes into play for non-scarce goods. One important one that has received plenty of attention lately is… well… attention, itself. Someone’s attention is a scarce commodity — and even if a good is non-scarce, it can be worthless if it doesn’t get anyone’s attention. So, once again, just as a tangible good, like a BMW, has non-scarce components like reputation, a non-scarce good, like a song, has a scarce component: how much attention is being paid to that song. Related to this is time. Time and attention are closely related, but aren’t exactly the same thing. However, anyone’s time is quite limited — meaning that it’s scarce. There are many, many other scarce things that relate to non-scarce goods as well, including money itself, access to individuals or places, the initial creation of those non-scarce goods and many others. Any and all of these can become quite important in setting up a business model that embraces non-scarcity.

Now, if you go back to the basis of this entire series, you’ll remember that non-scarce goods are pressured to be priced at $0 (the basic marginal cost equals price point), but that scarce goods can be priced above zero (though, there’s still pricing pressure towards marginal cost). So, the opportunities to make money are by focusing on the scarce components that are related to any non-scarce good. The companies and industries that have trouble with this are the ones who haven’t figured out what market they’re really in, and therefore only see the non-scarce components (“we’re selling movies!”) rather than recognizing the scarce components that make up part of what they’re really selling (“we’re competing for people’s entertainment dollars and attention by selling a movie-going experience”).

One company that has figured this out, however, is Google (whether the folks there recognize it or not). [...] By creating a tremendously useful index of information (a non-scarce good), it has brought together a community, and it is effectively selling that community’s attention (a very scarce good) to those who value it — advertisers. The non-scarce good acts as a value adding component, which makes the scarce good that much more valuable. You’ll see that this gets repeated in almost any industry. Going back to the automobile example, it’s the non-scarce good (BMW’s reputation) that makes the scarce good (BMW’s cars) that much more valuable.

While today’s movie industry execs may not yet get this, in the past some of them did. [...] Some musicians have figured this out as well. I love the example of The String Cheese Incident, a band that recognizes “The more people are exposed to the music, the better it is for the band.” The music (the non-scarce good) helps them sell a lot more tickets to concerts (a scarce good). However, that band took it a step further. They set up their own travel agency to help fans attend their concerts — and have been making money there, by saving people time (scarce good!) and helping them secure flights (scarce good) and lodging (scarce good), all in the pursuit of access to the band (scarce good) who they value so much because of the music (non-scarce good).

When you start viewing the world this way, you’ll suddenly start to notice that there are tons of scarce goods that can be charged for connected to non-scarce goods that make them more valuable. In fact… you’ll start to notice that since those non-scarce goods make the scarce goods more valuable, it’s actually better to free those non-scarce goods and encourage that they be distributed for free. They become a resource. You want them to be free. You want to syndicate them. You want others to share them for you — because the more that happens, the more value accrues back to the related scarce goods. The trick is just figuring out which scarce goods are connected at the hip to the non-scarce ones. But, with a little practice, it’s really not that difficult. [...]





=> https://web.archive.org/web/20210511055947/https://longtail.typepad.com/the_long_tail/2006/10/the_economics_o.html  *L. The Economics of Abundance - The Long Tail  ; slideshow inside
=> https://www.techdirt.com/2006/04/28/the-big-cato-copyright-conference-wrapup-the-debate-that-wasnt/  *M. Masnick's talk summary ;
=> https://www.techdirt.com/2007/02/28/does-peer-production-turn-capitalists-against-entrepreneurs/  *E. Does Peer Production Turn Capitalists Against Entrepreneurs? ;
;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/05/03/grand-unified-theory-economics-free/  *m0. The Grand Unified Theory On The Economics Of Free ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2006/10/26/economics-of-abundance-getting-some-well-deserved-attention/  *m1. Economics Of Abundance Getting Some Well Deserved Attention ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2006/11/08/the-importance-of-zero-in-destroying-the-scarcity-myth-of-economics/  *m2. The Importance Of Zero In Destroying The Scarcity Myth Of Economics ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2006/11/15/the-economics-of-abundance-is-not-a-moral-issue/  *m3. The Economics Of Abundance Is Not A Moral Issue ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2006/11/29/a-lack-of-scarcity-has-almost-nothing-to-do-with-piracy/  *m4. A Lack Of Scarcity Has (Almost) Nothing To Do With Piracy ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2006/12/06/a-lack-of-scarcity-feeds-the-long-tail-by-increasing-the-pie/  *m5. A Lack Of Scarcity Feeds The Long Tail By Increasing The Pie ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2006/12/14/why-the-lack-of-scarcity-in-economics-is-getting-more-important-now/  *m6. Why The Lack Of Scarcity In Economics Is Getting More Important Now ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/01/11/history-repeats-itself-how-the-riaa-is-like-17th-century-french-button-makers/  *m7. History Repeats Itself: How The RIAA Is Like 17th Century French Button-Makers ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2004/08/02/why-does-tivo-need-permission-to-innovate/  *m7a. Why Does TiVo Need Permission To Innovate? ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/01/18/infinity-is-your-friend-economics/  *m8. Infinity Is Your Friend In Economics ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/01/25/step-one-to-embracing-lack-scarcity-recognize-what-market-youre-really/  *m9. Step One To Embracing A Lack Of Scarcity: Recognize What Market You're Really In ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/02/01/why-i-hope-riaa-succeeds/  *m10. Why I Hope The RIAA Succeeds ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/02/15/saying-you-cant-compete-with-free-is-saying-you-cant-compete-period/  *m11. Saying You Can't Compete With Free Is Saying You Can't Compete Period ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/02/22/perhaps-its-not-entertainment-industrys-business-model-thats-outdated/  *m12. Perhaps It's Not The Entertainment Industry's Business Model That's Outdated ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/03/01/economic-explanation-why-drm-cannot-open-up-new-business-model-opportunities/  *m13. An Economic Explanation For Why DRM Cannot Open Up New Business Model Opportunities ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/03/15/recognizing-that-just-about-any-product-is-a-bundle-of-scarce-and-non-scarce-goods/  *m14. Recognizing That Just About Any Product Is A Bundle Of Scarce And Non-Scarce Goods ;
== https://www.techdirt.com/2007/03/22/scarcity-isnt-as-scarce-as-you-might-think/  *m15. Scarcity Isn't As Scarce As You Might Think ;
;
:: cr. 1678709322
