
thought 11/25:
the US has already entered a class struggle,
but what it specifically looks like is miscellaneous citizens scrambling and squabbling over control of corporations /regardless of class/ so that the corporate structures that run our society will create "good policies" regarding social issues. outsider capitalists are rushing to buy corporations like Twitter to swing them rightward, while "user-workers" are flailing around trying to insist that the corporations do the right thing or somebody stop the Bad Capitalists although the general working class doesn't truly have much control over this struggle right now when they generally accept that capitalists "have to" run things and they might have to put up their own capitalist to buy Twitter to successfully win this
it'd be like...... soviet Liberalism. to prevent Liberalism from collapsing we have to invent soviet Liberalism where voters always get to choose between capitalists but they're sadly still capitalists


---
v2

a class-blind struggle?

it is unclear if extending current ideas of democracy to high-ranking jobs (CEO etc) is sufficient to end this struggle
(although this refers more to /starting with concepts of democracy the people of the United States would already understand/, and less to discounting soviet democracy)
we seem to be in a confusing time where people are squabbling over every job and every role in society to determine what models of reality and codes of ethics everyone gets to have within the society and what direction the whole society will take - a contest which can't really be regulated by a constitution or existing democratic ideas. a contest over laws, constitutions, government forms, who is considered a citizen or voter and who is an enemy of the country, but bizarrely not very often the shape of industry.

what is the good outcome of this?
it would seem absurd to try to suggest that democracy should be fractalized down through every individual somehow and the responsibility to find the perfect compromise between nazism and civil rights handed to every job position and every person who interacts with another person.

however, this is what the struggle looks like. it's eveyrwhere at every tier of things at once, blind to class, with capitalists having their struggle to buy a particular company to advance particular values and workers haing their own struggles to win a particular swath of youtube before the nazis get it or get into a particular job position without being denied it by the people already at the company or losing it to some nastier person.
this is confusing to navigate.





>> 1669510507 intro
:: cr./ar. 1669447257
:: t. 8669447257
