# the fundamental task of creating towns


lenin and the bolsheviks did not realize they were building /civilization/
(at least, not in the sense described in here.)
they had a concept of "the economy" and "the state" and thought they had a country, they would take over this country and create a better economy and a better state.
but this was not what they ended up having to do. they ended up having to build society and civilization from nothing bit by bit, and outside countries mocked and demonized them for whatever failure they made in building civilization

Liberalism also rose because supposedly it was better at the fundamental task of creating towns, shops, jobs, communities, "entertainment", socialization

although this narrative was both unfair and untrue
the bolsheviks /were/ doing the fundamental task; there were housing, jobs, hospitals, all sorts of things created in short amounts of time. if not to high quality, at least very efficiently

why do we persistently believe ideas that the bolsheviks could not build civilization and they were only capable of picking up some vague institution called "the economy" and destroying it
because many people - possibly everyone - fail to understand emergent effects as they occur in human societies from the individual level to the country level

on the human level, people experience what looks like a bunch of voluntary association to create businesses and towns
but there are complicated things going on







how could the bolsheviks have "not known" they were building civilization?
they did not fully understand that there is no real separation between the process of going from a space where nobody lives to a town, and the process of "planning the economy". these are one process.

now we see at what point the "debate" between Liberalism and Marxism becomes complicated and confused
doesn't every town and every industry have to be constructed by the people who want to be in that thing, in some sense? how can some external capital city simply say 'I'm going to build a town now' and begin sending resources and people there?
but at the same time, if people could voluntarily associate to build a town, whose will is the most important? is it okay to let some oil baron or something decide where there are going to be towns just because they already have a pre-built chunk of industry? will the house builders decide where there are towns? the people who own the ships or trains? do the people who can found a town matter more than whatever external people might be affected by founding this town?
how do you make sense of the mess of interacting human wants and needs that go on between everyone who is going to found a new town and also everybody who might be affected by founding the town?
if you get it wrong, the town might devolve after a number of generations and a bunch of its people feel like they were born into a terrible deal and you might as well tear the town apart and start again. or the surrounding people might get mad for various reasons — that people have no viable choice but to move to the town, that whoever decided to found the town didn't have the claim to the land or the town and they did, etc.

the whole question gets much less confusing if you accept the invention of soviet democracy
in this case you can imagine some kind of democratic process which allows these potential founders and surrounding people to make a compromise instead of creating some kind of hierarchical system where whoever and whatever is already established orders around every newcomer from the very beginning






in one video prageru tried to distort the idea of Private Property into "privately-owned business"
a very subtle and clever distortion because it comes close to being correct
but "privately-owned business" is not a synonym for Private Property that fully describes what it really is.
the issue is privately-owned /civilization/, privately-owned right to build civilization in order to survive

whereas at previous times in history people survived as peasants or shepherds making everything themselves and intrinsically having an ability to build what they needed to survive provided their wants were limited, there was eventually a separation between people who are allowed to build civilization and what is needed to survive, and people external to that particular team of people who are required to interact with it and negotiate with it simply to survive. this is Private Property.
if we correctly understood this we would understand how monstrous and unacceptable it really was
the "paradox of socialized labor in private hands" only gets worse as time goes on and privately-owned civilization develops further, such that more parts of human life far beyond just labor centralize into private civilization and are /denied/ to regular people without either appeasing what small groups of people want in order to receive it or breaking the law.


one major challenge for anarchism is that private civilization will always affect anarchist movements no matter how much they decide not to be a part of it and to try to build some kind of alternate thing or stronghold of resistance outside it.
Private Property is always expanding itself, and simply by taking up space in this way, it is competing for space with anarchism. it is all too easy for this to result in a town competition scenario where private civilization wants to build something "over" anarchism either purposefully to crush it or because there is no other unclaimed space and now it must expand there before anarchism can properly defend it.
to win, anarchism has to really challenge and break open the control Private Property exerts over the space /it already occupies/, rather than run off to new space. when Private Property has already occupied so much space, every challenge to it is eventually going to involve breaking open all its previous winnings and getting rid of it entirely, unless we want a whole bunch of the planet closed off permanently.




why is it considered evil to obtain an unofficial copy of a book which is 30 years old?
not a tv show or film or anything classified as art, a reference book.
because you are defying private civilization - it doesn't matter that the publisher pays the authors sometimes at some amount that may not be enough, the for-profit publishers operate as founders of civilization who are upset you don't have to pay them to participate in their private civilization, and use "but we can't pay the authors" as a cover.






:: cr./ar. 1672624295
