## User Democracy

if you go looking through "social media" platforms such as YouTube to study public sentiment,
you'll actually see a lot of vaguely promising things.

1. people talk a whole lot about how bad products such as videogames or TV shows were /specifically/ because of bad corporate decisions, as well as how they would manage the corporation better — sometimes by moving a corporation over to another larger corporation, or adding a smaller partner or subsidiary onto it

2. a wide range of people are really fed up with capitalists attempting to change society without having to go through Liberal democracy, even through "more benign" methods like starting charitable foundations. it seems almost everyone is getting incredibly fed up with there even being Big Business at the scale there is.

these things suggest an unexpected conclusion - people want capitalism to fall under democracy, but they want it to be a democracy for /users/ of corporate services, much like voters don't actually work for the particular branch of the US government they're voting for but they get to vote anyway.
when you think about it, worker democracy is actually a strange idea on its own - if the workers serve the people who will use the products or services, shouldn't those users actually be involved in decisions about how to manage the corporation for users' needs rather than profit? if the workers or some kind of central planning system makes the wrong decisions because somebody other than the users made a decision and the users didn't agree, the public may eventually get upset at the system because it didn't do its fundamental job of creating an economy to meet the users' needs.

although this is an unusual suggestion, I posit that to get people to organize for anticapitalism we should listen to people's complaints about /goods and services/ and how capitalism never seems to deliver them well, yet we would need to create User Democracy to change any of the things people complain about.
you can convince the people of the United States that any labor movement or action should be illegal based on war and the supposed infringement onto negative freedoms by Evil Muslim Or Communist Countries.
but it's simply impossible to deny the reality of bad products and /tens of millions of people/ talking about each bad product from a particularly big business.

further, a lot of people are concerned about developments in AI displacing jobs. cutting-edge AI models can now generate whole videos from a text prompt, making people ask if this will simply make a lot of creative jobs such as "animator", "illustrator" or "concept artist", and  obsolete.
realistically, some of the most prestigious jobs in the Art Industries relating to polishing up products to be truly presentable would remain, including story writers (provided they can come up with truly creative ideas or have exceptional writing style) and art directors (who basically create the initial seed material an AI would use). but these human jobs might become highly competitive to the point everybody simply accepted that humans hardly ever get creative jobs and generally AIs make capitalist pop culture and you work for some other Industry to pay for it.
at this point consumers would almost be forced to create a User Democracy simply for artists to continue their craft of being artists for a public audience, and consumers in general to have any input on what the AI is creating. if consumers never invented User Democracy, we can make a guess from the previous patterns of capitalism that the system would evolve into corporations tweaking AIs to create things that adjust consumers' own preferences so that they collectively buy more things from the same corporations rather than using AIs to better fulfill what consumers want or need. perhaps we could imagine AIs are asked to deliberately produce sparse and "vapid" content so people will search for better movies and not find them, or maybe a more ethical producer would ask the AI to put unanswered questions in everything so people buy the next installment.

one of the most troubling implications of this is that a country's minorities could not "go into the industry to have their voices represented". the corporation could simply train an AI to produce "inclusive" content without having to employ the people groups it represents. and then, for instance, US black people or transgender people would have to explain to everyone over and over that the most important issue is that relative to the majority demographics they have trouble getting into jobs and supporting themselves in real life, not whether some piece of pop culture appears inclusive.




<= 1669510507 intro
:: sep. 1670276832
