Trotsky, Stalin, and multipolarity


a "multipolar world" is itself connected to class society in some ways
notably, the hierarchy that emerges between nations through competition, and the supposed conflict between the people and corrupt leadership which is said to stand in the way of Trotskyism.

there is a specific reason Stalin's government cracked down on real and suspected conspiracies to overthrow and replace "Stalinism" - world war.
where Trotsky tried to say there "could not be socialism in one country", he focused too much on the wording used by the communist party and not their actual actions.
in their actions, the "Stalinists" recognized that in order to have socialism in multiple countries it was necessary to first win individual countries and then federate them together, laying the foundation for there to not have to be socialism in one country.

however Trotsky continued his mistake into Europe and insisted that there needed to be an independent Trotskyist bloc or else the mission to move past "socialism in one country" could not be fulfilled. after Trotsky, Trotskyists continued to insist that East Germany could not be a step in moving past "socialism in one country" simply because the "Stalinists" controlled it and the Trotskyists did not.   [*g]

when we step back and understand Trotsky's conspiracy on a world scale it becomes clear why Trotskyism was never an alternative to "Stalinism".
Trotsky's conspiracy to take down the "Stalinist" bloc and replace it with a Trotskyist bloc exposes Trotskyism as a competitive ideology that historically operated by building itself up at the expense of everyone outside it.
Trotsky attempted to create a competitive vision of "Leninism" in the middle of an emerging world war, at a time when competition between countries was one of the biggest problems in the world that Communist countries were trying to solve in the first place.
had he correctly understood Lenin's analysis of imperialism, he could have seen that in both world wars the Soviet Union region was under threat of foreign capitalists coming in and gaining control, and other countries simply trying to invade the region to gain the coercive power to set the terms of agreements that winning a war entails. this was the battle Soviet Russia won in the WWI era - to be able to build civilization without first entering into hierarchies with other civilizations as a prerequisite - and Trotsky was willing to risk going backward on this problem several different possible ways simply to build a Trotskyist bloc at the expense of the Soviet Union and everyone in it who was satisfied with Stalin's government.


this established, we can understand "Stalinist" oppression as imposed on countries by war and the competition between countries, not by evil leadership deciding on this as their vision of the country.

the only way to have "Liberal democracy instead of Communism" or "Liberal democracy instead of Stalinism" is for the whole world to become a single democractic republic which cannot be invaded by any external country because none exists.
but only the communists wanted to create this kind of world democracy, through federating countries together into formations like the Soviet Union and the Third International.
every other country simply wanted to keep a bunch of separate competing countries which would inevitably have to compete over what was already divided, attack each other, and put harsh restrictions on their population in order to protect their position in the war, to hold onto what their country had and keep it from other countries. this happened both with Communist countries, which cracked down on reactionaries to protect their position in the war, and with countries like the United States, which cracked down on /communists/ in order to protect its position in the war.


this observation that federations of Communist countries were an improvement over war easily gets lost because neocolonialism also creates a kind of "federation". entire countries become an arm of another country and its economy, and it's simply accepted that one country has to produce only a single product for specific imperialist powers in order to have anybody to sell to; if it attempts to produce essential items for itself rather than foreign investors or sell to too many other countries the imperialist powers may crack down on it with sanctions, coups, or outright wars.
you hear any number of justifications trying to naturalize this coercive arrangement like "we live in an interconnected world", "it's only natural for each country to produce what it's good at", etc.

but we should not be confused: neocolonialism is class society; Communist federations are democracy, with the pitfalls of democracy.

as capitalism develops more and more, federation becomes the only option
corporations have to federate together into clusters of corporations working on the same projects
countries have to federate together into larger economies
and our only real choice is whether those federations are going to be coercive and characterized by class divides, or democratic federations where individual components can choose to join and leave at will, joining different federations if applicable.



there are at least two kinds of "disagreement":
competition, where two parties are entirely separate and acting independently, eventually whatever they do is at the expense of each other
dialogue, where two parties gradually discuss, amend, and change their ideas until they can find agreement.
united states notions of "democracy" do not distinguish between competition and dialogue, lumping both of them together as "disagreement"
but this is a vital distinction







=> https://www.marxists.org/history/etol/document/icl-spartacists/1990/trotskyism.html  *g. "To the workers of Germany, East and West ..." (Spartacist 1990) ;
;
<= v3-Intro
:: cr./ar. 1671843699
:: t. bloc
