you are always the product

people like to paint anything funded by ads or trackers as especially sinister. "you are the product!"
but the reality is, /anything/ that profits off maintaining the same audience turns its audience into a product

if you buy trading cards, you are the product
if you buy tv shows, you are the product
if you buy books in a series or by a big name author that will definitely produce more books on that theme, you are the product
if you subscribe to a "social media" newsfeed platform and remove the ads, you are the product

products and services such as popular culture and "social media" newsfeeds which are sold to you with a social side are actually all making money on social networks
this can particularly be observed with videogames - they're marketed to us like we have to buy them right now or we won't get to play them with friends who bought them right now, and then we'll begin to realise we didn't actually need that game if a bunch of other people hadn't decided to play it

this is not necessarily a terrible thing by itself; it could be seen in a benign way where experiencing a product socially is simply what makes these products enjoyable
however, it opens up an understanding of "intellectual property" as a company leasing a bunch of seats which have already been filled or are calculated to bring more people into seats.
every "social experience" sold to us relies on network effects, and also on turning us all into the product by indirectly speculating on our likelihood of continuing to participate in the social phenomenon associated with the product and thus its network effect


"what killed the X franchise"
no, previously a company was making money on you continuing to be in the audience for that thing and now you're free.


thus it shouldn't actually be surprising that people decide to be "the product" on newsfeed platforms






maybe... this is the new form of value creation??
i listened to this talk where trotskyists were going on about the economy transforming into finance capital - at least this one seemed coherent and correct - and thought,
wait, but if the highest level of the system is no longer using workers, isn't the saying that workers create all the value not true at that level?
you can screw over the lower levels and make them give concessions or go out of business but the higher levels could still persist

it seems like at the highest level all the profit comes from Audience rather than labor
if a brand has a bigger total Audience, this is where the shareholders get their money
with respect to things like banks, the capitalists are spreading out over a vast area of mortgages or banks to expand Audience to the point it seems inevitable the instrument or debt they're betting on will be sold to /somebody/
with respect to insurance, the Audience is the people who pay into insurance plans, and the company hopes to get the right mixture of people in the Audience to not lose money even though it sometimes has to pay out
typical banks are themselves Audienceism; a bank bets on having a large enough Audience to be able to speculate on some of the money on the bank and not come up short

the strategy is to act like the individual people in the Audience matter but really it's only the size of the Audience and you want the biggest Audience of entirely replaceable people so you can pick the most profitable members for your Audience
it's like, the investors profit on people's needs. the profits are correlated to people's requests or the difference between the requests and the selling price.
but they are not as strongly correlated to labor any more. you can now cut labor and release things like rushed videogames or re-releases of the same product which aren't even remakes, rather than making the workers work longer to extract more surplus value as in the traditional model. you are making money on the rushed game by having a giant Audience. the Audience becomes exploited in addition to, or rarely instead of, the worker.


if workers' states allowing private corporations is state capitalism, then social-democracy is actually just state Audienceism
how to know this: its proponents explain that it involves taxing everyone including workers instead of specifically taxing the rich
everyone is turned into one Audience that pays into Audienceism "voluntarily" rather than it being any kind of dictatorship of the proletariat that suppresses or discourages rich investors
but the question is, who owns the Audience?
in every private-sector version of Audienceism there is an owner who entirely decides how much effort the Audience will receive and at what point the owner simply starts withholding labor-hours or money to make more money, or simply drops Audience members to get more profitable ones in some kind of acquisition, change of direction that upsets the previous Audience, etc.
does finance capital own the Audience? or can state Audienceism actually be a republican form of Audienceism without a particular owner?
either way "state" Audienceism has the effect of lumping all workers and capitalists into one Audience class, at which point the capitalists start complaining it's unfair to treat the two differently


the consequence of not solving Audienceism is that individual human beings become increasingly interchangeable and expendable. it's only the large group collectively that makes money and provides one set of basic things for all its members despite some of them making a lot of money and some making very little money









:: cr./ar. 1674114340
:: ed. 1674260845
:: t. product
