the refusariat


it's been said capitalism runs like a battery, where people flow from the owning classes at one end to the proletariat at the other end, and the longer it runs the more the battery goes toward its empty state.

but I would contend that the process is a little more like food in a sauté pan - although the process can keep going toward a good outcome, like all the onions turning a nice brown, the process can also keep going past that, and it can keep sizzling and sizzling until the onions are black and burnt.

capitalism runs for a while, it forces people into the proletariat, our nice golden brown onion class
but then as it keeps going it forces people /out/ of the proletariat, into our new burnt onion class.

you might be aware that something happens as a battery runs - it gets used up to where it is no longer useful, and then you might need to go find a new battery.
the same thing is true of capitalism. once it uses up the people of one area or even a whole country, it throws them away and goes to find a new battery.
the people it used up become the trash or /refuse/ of capitalism, which I tentatively dub the "refusariat".


detroit - capitalists removed industry, huge racism and "crime" problem stems from capitalists' actions
concrete peasants
layoffs
supply chain moving out of china


refusarians are constantly pushed around by Blobonomics - a dynamic in which every single thing they could be a part of functions by people either being fully in a thing and agreeing to every part of it, or going over to another thing they fully agree to, or failing that, being part of nothing at all.

this means refusarians are constantly asked to prove themselves simply in order to be part of something rather than nothing. a refusarian really needs to get organized, but any political or economic organization made of established workers automatically has power to push around refusarians and demand unreasonable things of them simply to get in which could undermine the revolutionary potential of the organization.

the refusarian class has led to a lot of confusion about Marxism
due to a lot of confusion on both sides, refusarians have often come to think that parties and nation-states are inherently oppressive and they need anarchism, while Marxist parties have at times come to think refusarians are just lazy or uninformed or don't have the right priorities and need to follow their lead and get with the program.
neither of these things are true. refusarians have unique sets of demands that sometimes won't match proletarian demands and will need to be pushed onto Marxist parties, but thinking Marxist parties are not usable is simply failing to understand democracy and the idea that Marxist parties should serve the people rather than the other way around.


it's been said at times in historical Marxist writings that capitalism will shape proletarians into the kind of people who can build the future
this has arguably been varying degrees of untrue with proletarians - but may be the truest of refusarians
however, refusarians can easily come out of their "training" in a battered state.

I just want to be part of society instead of running away from people. I just want to be allowed to work and live. just tell me what I'm allowed to do and who I'm allowed to be, and I'll behave. is there really an evil Stalinist party culture that will suddenly decide it doesn't like me after I do my best to participate and not be the wrong person with the wrong demands and not express them the wrong way? if I'm simply not good enough at things no matter how I try am I a bad worker? how good do I have to be at things to be accepted in society or be allowed to be myself, or simply get to live?
keeping all people at arm's length and listening carefully to all their statements of intentions or plans carefully strategizing when and if it will be possible to reason with them to achieve any kind of common goal, or if it's better to run away from them and stay hidden.
fearing all other human beings as just another earthly animal that could hurt you if you don't carefully tame it.

in a sense, refusarians have maybe been trained too much and need to be un-trained,
so they can be re-shaped into new refusarians which are characterized by strong survival skills and a powerful will to always boldly do what they want to do in their lives whether capitalist structures want to assist in that, attempt to stop it, or do nothing.
when a refusarian is content to survive in simple ways with practically no accomodation from capitalism, simply eking a bit out of capitalism and building everything they want most on their own, capitalism will find it difficult to have a lot of power over them compared to a proletarian who feels entitled to a lot of stuff they must buy from capitalism after accepting capitalism's terms.




it is not actually possible to withhold labor now
proletarians are too replaceable, and even entire businesses are too replaceable. the global supply chain and market are now what hold proletarians prisoner, not their boss
in fact, at this point entire countries are replaceable. if China doesn't behave and do what it wants, capitalism might head straight over to India, or Mexico, or Nigeria and start making everything there.



the refusarians must enter the economy /like hell/ and produce /like hell/ for the people in order to secure demands for a better economy in return
this is Meshonomics I guess
the refusarians will each show up with so much ability they /actually/ have the ability to withhold labor again, and with the energy and work ethic to toss into the system their piece of how it should be improved, rather than simply offering suggestions. a system which is 'beyond democracy' but in the good sense where people are just Doing things instead of voting for someone else to do them

imagine that a bunch of refusarians enter Microsoft and offer to build something really good in exchange that it will be liberated. if Microsoft does not agree, they begin an effort to get everyone to stop using Windows and build a Free Software counterpart that entirely replaces it

why do the refusarians have to offer their work to corporations?
in order to get the attention of the people, who thoughtlessly accept whatever product seems to work.
a revolution builds up when some particular movement can get the bulk of the people on its side and get them to see that the system they live in daily is not legitimate and they will be able to run it better and not run it into the ground. thus, refusarians should flood capitalism and show it can be run to produce what the people want and need, and if capitalism refuses that, the penalty is the people refusing capitalism.





china mean to US refusariat   [*c1,*c2]
they don't understand that these people are desperate to be accepted in order to be allowed the means to live, and by propping up old prejudices they allow proletarians to oppress refusarians and slide toward becoming a non-revolutionary class


if the refusarians succeed, the economy would become a cooperative set of institutions and there would only be nation-state-ism left to solve
however, you cannot tear down nation-state-ism in one country. it must be a process of interacting nation-states with each other until somehow nation-states do not have to go to war any more   [*A]
the key thing that makes a nation-state a property structure is war. so international war must go away before this property structure can be dismantled or transformed into a different thing






[*A] riff on how anarchists understand that statism is too 'provincial' and you need international action, but then some of them complain about 'the nation-state' as these things you have to take down one at a time - statism in one country is bad but anarchism in one country is not considered to have the same weaknesses

; [*c1] what people notice after moving to china
; [*c2] china confused at a US stuck on identity politics - breakthrough news
=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-H6Li6XyNLc  the silent depopulation of eastern europe
;
:: cr. 2023-03-12T02:23:26Z
:: ar. 1678677183
