where does hierarchy come from?


some anarchists can be really obsessed with hierarchy and "breaking out of hierarchies"
[such as?]


you see this thinking in
"techno-feudalism"-like frameworks - bookchin 'refuting' marx
post-colonial anarchism/Liberalism
anarchism against the idea of communist theorists and parties




here is how hierarchy is created:
different groups of people are in chaos, disconnected and without any greater structure
as the groups of people expand outward, they come into disagreement and competition
if the disagreement and competition is really bad, the groups will fight and one will conquer the other, creating a hierarchy where the winning group holds power over the overall system

this is the pattern seen with warring states periods before feudal monarchies, racist or xenophobic conflicts between people groups, coalitions of LGBT+ allies versus coalitions tied together by homophobia and transphobia, right-wing pseudoscience and conspiracy theory cults versus coalitions of reasonable people, political parties and organizations in general, corporations and mergers, and other things.
one can even attempt to make an argument that this pattern applies to oppression committed by workers' states, where "Stalinism" has run into pockets of anarchism and ultraleftism, come into a disagreement with them, fought them, and unfairly subjugated them. as Bolshevism grew, several different factions of "Stalinism", Trotskyism, anarchism, and Liberalism expanded outward and ran into each other, resulting in unforeseen conflicts over the system that had to be resolved in some way.

but there is also an alternative to this hierarchy process:
groups of people can expand outward as usual, voluntarily agree to link together,
solve their disagreements over time in a dialectic in order to create a single overall unified structure with somewhat consistent agendas and rules,
and work toward never recreating the potential hierarchy that could have formed if they had fought each other or other outside groups had fought all of them.


the hierarchy process is somewhat "natural" inasmuch as anybody can begin creating it without intending to
but that does not mean it needs to happen

Marxism should be understood as a study of preventing the hierarchy process before it happens
because it can happen so accidentally, resisting hierarchy requires having a really good understanding of errors that could lead to accidentally creating it and how to not commit those errors.



a great illustration of the hierarchy process:
bible imperialism
destroying ba'al
the stories depict local gods and one big god taking out all the local gods

something not appreciated:
local gods are Thor, Artemis, Garuda, Inari, Pazuzu, Anubis on one side of Egypt and Wepawet on the other
that is to say, local gods are connected to local /cultures/ and /people-groups/

japan did not end up destroying all its shrines to "ba'al", nor did the successors to greece or rome necessarily. but in a world more violent than ours, maybe we could imagine that christians smash the shrine to Inari to bits claiming this patron spirit of foxes is an evil unholy demon that does not represent the true god. christians have made similar enough claims in the real world minus taking any action on them.
[religious examples?]
at times, christians have written books trying to explain how mythical stories depicted in Japanese animation are sending us the wrong messages because the mythology and imagery in the story does not line up with the christian bible and the discrepancies could only be explained by the animated show and its creators ultimately tracing back to forces of Satan trying to confuse earthly people by sending them incorrect mythology. it may sound ridiculous, but the individual authors of the books believed it quite seriously.

why did Protestantism resemble Trotskyism
it was like it broke out of the tyrannical church of england but then it split apart into a bunch of non-cooperating groups with totally different ideas
well, protestants had a local church, Trotskyists had a local party, all trying to escape a central authority

protestantism was kind of like christianity accidentally beginning the process of dismantling its empire after christians finally realized there was something viscerally wrong with one big christianity having conquered and holding power over all the little christianities
in a strange way, christianity stumbled all the way back to restoring local gods of a local culture by restoring independent local churches to the same god.

however in ancient religions there have also been processes of local gods simply peacefully uniting together as their local cultures united together rather than destroying each other.
zeus having affairs with every single local goddess?
gods and goddesses from separate local traditions paired together
gods simply merged into one god

all this is to say:
when we look back at "bible imperialism", there is no reason the stories had to go the way they did. there is no reason we have to destroy each ba'al or local god. there is no reason the christian empire "has" to conquer these people and grow greater, taking the other people-groups as slaves and codifying slavery in their ancient religious laws.
even by ancient standards, we can imagine ways this process could have been slightly better, peacefully merging different gods together and establishing less hierarchical economic arrangements.
in the United States, the British settlers would create indentured servitude, where people with nothing would be granted a kind of "loan" they would have to pay off with labor. this was not a great system, and would inform later periods of sharecropping which would feed into segregated businesses, redlining, and other kinds of structural racism. but it was not slavery, and shows us that human beings really may never have needed to invent slavery at all.

however, assuming for argument that the bible stories are some kind of loose reflection of the culture that made them and inspired by overall themes in the real history leading up to the people who wrote them,
the bible writers tell a story of having stumbled into imperialism /by accident/.
bible stories depict groups of ancient people ultimately confused by conflict and war between different human populations, who ask their leaders on earth and their leaders of the supernatural realm what to do and receive the answer that God says it's okay and even preferable to eliminate the other groups of people before they strike first. these people then spend a lot of time convincing themselves as well as future generations that they were simply trying to live their lives, they simply had no idea what to do and tried their best to do what was morally right, and conquering the other people-groups must have been the right thing to do because they received the approval of God as well as everyone around them and put all their energy into serving God.


at every point in this story, the people believed that everything they were doing was right, or at least that they took their actions in order to protect their own rights and freedoms. nowhere in the process of "bible imperialism" did anybody have to realize that waging war and taking slaves was Evil and then consciously decide that it was a necessary evil and they were going to do it anyway.

this is the connection between philosophies such as anarchism or Trotskyism and imperialism:
the people groups depicted in the bible did not examine their actions and /made an error/.
imperialism is what happens /by default/ if you do not take action to evaluate whether what you are doing is going to lead to hostile conflict with other groups and ultimately to somebody committing imperialism.

it's not the case that every error anybody makes anywhere will lead specifically to large-scale imperialist war. sometimes, all an error will do is create a state of chaos and disorganization that leaves more room for competition and hostile conflict. but even that can be enough to create hierarchy.


mccarthyism
there was a conflict inside the united states, the Liberals won, anybody against capitalism was suppressed

spanish anarchism
there was a conflict between the anarchists and the State, the anarchists did nothing to expand or solidify themselves peacefully, the State won

german republic
this one is rather complicated so we need to look at it carefully
germany was trying to go from monarchy to republic but the economy was collapsing before they got all the way to a modern republic
social-democrats refused to work with communists
trotsky claims demonizing the social-democrats and over-identifying fascism was the problem but he did not know anything
ultimately we can see that the disconnecting pieces not working together was a problem, regardless of whose fault it actually was this was happening


now we have the 2020s United States
in this situation, practically nothing is connected to anything

there are a bunch of entirely scattered philosophies such as post-colonial theories, Lacanianism, various other branches of the New Left, various fragments of anarchism and random protests, a couple Trotskyist parties and tiny local shards, the Communist Party USA which appears to be about as useful, small environmental movements, movements for specific identities and identity politics issues, atheist movements for secularism, the Free Software movement, movements for extremely specific freedoms like the right to film police, large labor unions which are strictly for economic demands, nonprofit organizations for really specific purposes, church organizations with their own specific goals, the Democratic Socialists of America and its effort to get the center-Liberal party to actually do anything whatsoever, all sorts of movements which don't necessarily work with each other or even support each other's existence.
none of these fragmentary efforts has seemed to be able to provide any "leadership" or "guidance" to create any kind of unified movement.
but off to the side of everything remotely useful is a fierce competition between the Democratic party, which does almost nothing, and the Republican party, which seeks to take over Liberal-democratic machinery to variously spread Toryism, Nazism, and Randian propertarianism depending on the person.

the people know they need to unify "against fascism", but it is entirely unclear which people to unify to which people because none of the groups have affinity with any of the other groups and sometimes a group will consider other groups' goals an obstacle to theirs - as with communists and Lacanians, or communists and anarchists, or Trotskyists and anybody, or Free Software supporters and communists and anarchists.
one thing is certain: if none of these groups ever unify but the conservatives do, the conservatives will rise to the top of the chaos and disagreement and win, imposing hierarchy.


meanwhile, in china the nationalists and communists temporarily worked together against the monarchy, and they won. it did not end up like germany with china never solidly forming a republic before the nobles had already started trying to restore feudalism and appealing to the Nazi Party to help them
even the Kuomintang, though it would later be criticized for suspiciously reactionary behavior at times, would ultimately be "defeated" in a sense. greater numbers of people unified for better causes and the KMT did not win



colonial exploitation and genocide are something that continuously approaches again and again
if the hierarchy process keeps running and we don't stop it, there will be new war, new colonialism, new genocide

worst of all, whenever one of these awful events happens, it is integrated into everyone's worldviews with justifications for why it had to happen or couldn't have been prevented or doesn't matter.
this encoding of violent actions onto collective human memory is a one-way process that changes things forever. it cannot be cleanly reversed. whatever we do to make the world better after an awful event happens will always be shaped by doing it in a world where the prejudices from before and after the event were successfully created and passed down to future generations while the history of oppressed people groups and their side of the story was erased.

if we live in a world after Cortéz participated in wiping out the Aztecs and we'd like to redeem the members of Aztec civilization who weren't for violence and empire, we don't necessarily have the stories of those people. we'll always be advocating uphill in a world where a lot of people hate Aztecs as much as Spanish conquerors if not more.

if we live in a world after various events happened to create oppressed ethnic groups in the United States, whenever we try to improve this situation we will always be operating in a world changed by those previous events. this does not give us any excuse to say that we don't have to address these issues or we're already done addressing them simply because the events are in the past and things are different now. it only means that the ways in which we mend each of these issues will have to reflect the new world that we live in today and the realities of how the people we are trying to help currently fit into that world and what other possibilities exist. it may not be possible to literally reverse what has happened to what was before, but we can try to build a better world starting with what we have.

if we live in a world after the Communist Party of China has taken over China and the Xinjiang region is part of China, and we'd like to advocate for Uyghur rights, this may not be an ideal situation to be in.
but it might not be the progressive thing to try to break China back apart again in a mode of thinking that autonomy is necessarily more important than creating a cooperative agreement between groups of people who have already interacted and come into conflict. this situation is difficult because Leninism holds that nationalities should be allowed to self-organize into nations as they need to and even to break out of other nations, but there can be a conflict between whether a region should be allowed to secede and ally with imperialist powers or it's better to attempt to organize together the communist allies in the region and keep it in, and this particular region already has at least some people who are fine with remaining part of China.

ultimately, if some kind of awful exploitation is going to happen, the strongest action we can take against it is to prevent it before it happens, not try to clean it up afterward.
but this means that to not have to worry about future colonialism, genocide, war crimes, reparations, tensions, anti-racist movements, national liberation movements against empires, appeals to the United Nations to repair one country oppressing another, we must prevent imperialist war. we must prevent the hierarchy process as much as we can in our movements and in our nation-states.
post-colonial frameworks cannot do this. they can unify a nationality against another nationality, potentially creating new prejudices, but they cannot organize people to form cooperative structures and build a more peaceful world with less chaos and competition.








Chaos. Competition. War. Hierarchy.
and in a globally connected world, step 2:
Empire. Conquest. Super-exploitation. Dehumanization. Extermination. Naturalization and justification.



there is no Hell to go to - there are only rulers, retainers, and wreckers




:: cr. 1678748631
