


it wouldn't be true to say Kropotkinist production "doesn't work"
it has already had a smashing success with linux distributions, as well as perhaps small-scale community efforts like people planting fruit trees anybody can access
but it's not sufficient to liberate everyone from capitalism

from Alice according to Alice's need, to Bob according to Alice's need

this pattern has actually been hiding inside capitalism as well
with early European businesses as well as capitalism, the pattern has been, from Alice according to Alice's need, to Bob according to Alice's need /if he can afford it/. and all anarchists have done is remove "if you can afford it".
this is good, it's not a bad thing. but where we really want to get to is, to Alice according to Alice's need, to Bob according to Bob's need

the problem is that if you simply immediately start doing Kropotkinist production, there is no input from the people with actual needs — there is no _democracy_

Kropotkinism is missing democracy, and it cannot create democracy by itself
although it was designed for small and connected communities, it also thrives in environments where everybody is disconnected and nobody has any idea what anybody else is about to do nor any input on their production process

could it be that Kropotkinism + creatorism = socialism?
I won't rule out the possibility but I don't necessarily think so
one big reason is that the main people who have actually been doing Kropotkinist production and championing it the loudest are right-"Libertarians"
Jimmy Wales (Wikipedia), Mike Masnick (Techdirt / Question Copyright), Richard Stallman (Free Software movement), etc
stallman was for breaking up big businesses and replacing them with small businesses (2015). there have also been accusations of misogyny against him, but that is beyond the scope of this chapter(?).

Kropotkin was standing around in Russia thinking, what if we didn't have to create Bolshevism, what if everybody could just be really productive and then we don't need capitalism
he had no idea that the main group of people with enough time to do Kropotkinism would be petty bourgeoisie who wanted to maintain capitalism as long as possible




=> https://stallman.org/articles/progressive-tax-on-business-gross-income.html  n. stallman: we need to replace big businesses with smaller businesses  ; god, i almost need to voice this one
=> https://stallman.org/business-supremacy-treaties.html  n. stallman: china might be more democratic than businesses? not sure  ; no, this one is hilarious too
;
; LATER: actually read 'conquest of bread' and revisit this
;
:: cr. 1680464761
