property, territory, and empire

empire was a thing that always existed since a long time ago
imperialism was not invented when capitalism started, although you could get that impression reading Lenin's work.

empire already existed because /property/ already existed
the nation-state is a property structure, much like the territories held by a duke or earl back when.
however, a nation-state is an institution for protecting an economy created by one group of people against attack by other groups of people, should they try to destroy it or plunder it

nation-states ultimately developed from small groups of people with a particular culture expanding outward and interacting, perhaps violently, perhaps cooperatively, until there was one big territory containing people with a particular general culture. the culture, ethnicity, or national identity of the people is not the important thing that makes a nation-state exist - the nation-state is an agreement of two groups of people (nation-states) that came into contact that they will each keep a certain national territory instead of fighting each other to change the borders again. this is the basic reason why it can make sense for there to be a national liberation movement to create a new nation-state where people are free from war with some other country, even as other countries start to contemplate at what point in time /their/ nation-state will become obsolete and turn into something else.

This is an incredibly important concept to understand if we would like to defeat the specter of anti-communism.
In Trotskyism, Liberalism, anarchism, and some other ideologies, there is an idea that a workers' state can become oppressive by enforcing core principles and trying to create a unified structure which can defend against attacks by Liberal countries in various forms. the "Stalinists" are not letting us practice Trotskyism or anarchism and they must be doing it because they want to stop progress and keep power, not because they want to keep the country intact in the face of actual threats. "the nation-state" is encroaching on organic community and snatching people into capitalism and Liberalism before we can construct anarchism.

the only way to stop these claimed abuses by "Stalinism" and "the nation-state" is to look ahead to the day when national territories and the material life inside do not have to be protected like business property simply to exist.
however, this ultimately requires ending political and economic competition between countries.

Trotsky once claimed that socialism could not be achieved "in one country" without addressing imperialist countries, but ironically, it takes cooperation with so-called "Stalinist" countries in order to move beyond "socialism in one country". Likewise, if they would like to move out of the "primary stage of socialism" and its requirements to continuously build up more industry to compete with other nation-states, workers' states cannot fear other countries forever.
competition between countries and between Marxist movements in one country and another is a big part of the problem.




:: ar. 1678494897
>> v4-Intro
