




---
v1

## reverse class collaboration

it took me a long time to come up with a phrase to describe this

people really think that helping themselves first /is a meaningful form of struggle/
it is not a bad or unacceptable thing to help yourself first, but I would say it doesn't have much relation to proletarian struggle.


* I have seen staunch center-Liberals dedicated to this, that if they climb up in capitalism and make money and vote for the Democratic Party and donate to charities, they can solve social problems by having a privileged position and giving some random black or trans person money.
however, if you listen to anti-racist activists, they want oppressed groups to have a chance to climb up through the economy like anyone else, not some white person claiming the position first and calling it activism.
this exposes a contradiction of capitalism that in order to help oppressed groups we basically have to give up our role in the economy and let the oppressed group /do that societal role/ to receive an income and economic connections, though under capitalism this also takes away our ability to do much activism to raise more of these people up. here we see that we all compete for /societal roles/, and if we really want to help oppressed groups the "slotted"/"all vs all" nature of capitalism simply has to go in order to not create oppressed groups.

* Richard Wolff — labelled by some as a syndicalist and some an anarchist — always advances co-ops as the successor to corporations and the 'real' hallmark of socialism. however, he has attracted a lot of right-wing conspiracy theorists who believe "techno-feudalist"/"corporatist" capitalism is bad but capitalism is good.
referring to the section above on "Industry blob vs independent businesses", you can see he makes an error by assigning proletarian struggle to small businesses and urging everybody to exert themselves to get out of proletarian status and into a small business to oppose the central Industry Blob; this is not correct because to end capitalism a broad group of workers must unite to break open /all corporations/ and break apart the struggle between corporations.

* one YouTube creator I followed started out talking about Marx's work and various Marxist or anarchist sounding themes, and then went down a path of 'merely trying to get stable first', and ultimately ended up championing /political Lacanianism/ as a replacement for Marxism, as well as denouncing all actually-existing political movements because they weren't "universal enough". they started at Marx and went all the way to "anti-racism is technically racist for believing in race".

* YouTube creators in general have a pattern of getting into some prestigious job like law or medicine or simply the top bracket of Youtube creators and making some kind of progressive YouTube channel with high production values where they claim to be "doing their part". many are Liberals, and have drawn criticism from communist channels because "you just handed that Liberal creator a $50 bill when all he does is tell people to vote for the Democrats". but there are even a few communist channels like this, which, while some of the more informative channels on the platform, have been brought into question on whether they are creating a useful or inclusive movement, or simply running an isolated business.

* there is an entire right-wing fake communist movement that wrongly interpreted statements by Stalin and third-worldist writers as meaning that all war against empires was good. following this train of logic, one could come to think that if you move from the US to China or from the US to Russia or from the US to Iran it's all the same because any war against the US is good, and supposedly must happen as a first step to building socialism anywhere. the obvious problem with this movement is that there is less than nothing stopping it from becoming fascism and fighting a war of xenophobia against other countries, and it has basically aligned itself with Russian nazis. here, helping yourself first has turned into fascism and international war.


now I've come to feel like this error is best called reverse class collaboration
in class collaboration, workers ally with the upper classes and trust them to support the labor movement rather than hinder it
in reverse class collaboration, upper classes come to believe they have the ability to help workers through the normal mechanisms of capitalism even if these methods don't really give workers more control and may amount to the reverse class collaborator deciding things about material life and yet hardly improving it ('here, have a co-op, not much will actually change but you have to work harder and also listen to me').
(see also: Richard Owen)

the worst thing is that /workers/ can be guilty of reverse class collaboration. refer to the two examples about the average Liberal and the Lacanian, and you'll see that both these people were broad-sense proletarians that fell into a trap of thinking that if they work hard in capitalism and stay afloat they can /get ahead/ enough to help others.
however, the slot model shows us otherwise, that in capitalism jobs themselves are gained at somebody else's expense and classes are created as people outcompete other people for the higher-grade slots. to "play the game" of capitalism is to reproduce the game, because the rules of capitalism recreate capitalism and classes.

but, to be honest, I'm not sure this is actually a fatal kind of error that will /destroy/ a particular effort to resist capitalism or build socialism.
I'm open to the idea it's /possible/ there is a way for reverse class collaboration to work out, although I don't know how.

currently I'm leaning toward that if you think reverse class collaboration is okay, you need to fully experience the depths of Dengism. understand all the positions and pitfalls of Dengism and harmonizing workers and corporations, and then go try to defend it to regular workers as an exercise, and see what they say to you.
this is not a rhetorical suggestion. I think if we all had a conversation about this, it would in fact be easier to see what's wrong with reverse class collaboration.





:: ar. 1669963164
:: t. 8669963164
>> 1669541173 intro
