if we were to end the conflict of large business empires versus each other, perhaps we might imagine for a moment that we turned them into something like the ministries of the Soviet Union,
the contradiction of All vs All among the workers would stil remain. workers would still be competing against each other to get slots in the nationalized industries, which could regenerate racism, queerphobia, xenophobia, anti-humanities attitudes, and other prejudices.

this means that fundamentally the conflict between individual workers has to be solved if we want to prevent the country from building fascism or genocide.
this is an open question that almost no existing political theory has actually solved.
the Liberal idea of democracy certainly does not solve it, as it ultimately creates top-down control of a voting bloc by bourgeois party officials and the imperative for each voter of "the right way" to compete with every voter who hasn't come to the correct positions - in order to "change society using reason", the center-Liberal must defeat the other voters to add them to a voting empire, and hope the voting empire upholds the demands of any of the people it claimed in order to increase its power.
equally, existing Marxist-Leninist workers' states have not necessarily solved this problem. a kind of "Stalinist Liberalism" sometimes emerges where people confident in the communist party's vision try to defeat people of other ideologies and either win them over or get them to "shut up" and stop promoting their wrong opinions. this may be a simple everyday struggle between two individuals without greater harm, or may also connect itself to the way the state and law treat people of other ideologies, singling them out as inadequate citizens of the communist country.

it seems like while it is important for the working class to overtake capitalists and remove their control over society, and to remove the most visible unnecessary competition between big businesses, the final step in ending Liberal capitalism - most specifically the "Liberal" part - is to get individuals to cooperate on common goals rather than to defeat each other in service of their own aims.
this question will remain open until it is solved, but it will definitely include both economic and political or philosophical aspects.



:: cr./ar. 1670379793
:: t. 8670379793
>> 1669510507 intro
