---
v2

The mandate of competence

in the old days people had the idea of a mandate of heaven, or a mandate of consent of the governed
in the time of monarchy, religion might be used to justify how the cosmos wanted a particular ruler to be there.
in the first Liberal democracies, an idea was created that rulers should only get to be in power if the people were not dissatisfied with that ruler, and the people should be able to unseat rulers that cannot run the country in the way the people want.

now we have a new concept of the "mandate of competence".
primarily inside capitalism, people become accustomed to the idea that owners should get to be in power if they run an industry in a way that delivers what consumers want, and if they do not keep the industry open and delivering, some other capitalist should be able to unseat them.
however, this idea has also leaked out into general politics, merging the simple idea of "maybe politicians should be good at what they do" into the same universal mandate to deliver and produce that exists in capitalism. politicians are asked not just to run civilization adequately, but to /improve/ civilization, and also often given conflicting demands on how to improve it. thus some people will try to vote politicians out for not making the private-sector economy more productive, and others will try to vote politicians out for not making improvements in civil rights or workers' rights or public services. (the goals of productivity and a better life for citizens should not be at odds, but we can thank capitalist class struggle for ensuring they are.)

there are some very ugly sides to the mandate of competence.
in the 2010s people invoked it on US president Barack Obama with assertions that all incompetent presidents have to go even if that means there are no black presidents, woman presidents, or anything else except cis white men. right-wing voters in particular believed Obama was not improving civilization, so he was no measure of progress, only a possible sign of the country declining toward a long chain of incompetent presidents.

likewise Liberal-based ideologies often hold that Marxism-Leninism and anarchism cannot win the mandate of competence because calling for revolution is itself a sign you are not competent enough at running the country or "using reason" to convince everyone to vote in Communism.



in my opinion the mandate of competence most likely has to go
not because it is not legitimate to judge people on their ability, but because of the way it currently scales infinitely. corporations are expected to deliver greater and greater beyond what's realistically feasible just because consumers are used to constant improvement, and politicians are expected to make Liberal democracy do the impossible in spite of capitalists making it even more impossible.

if we do not get rid of the mandate of competence and transform it into something better,
there may be no more politics. we might see every discussion of politics transform into a discussion of materially running industries and other material aspects of civilization.
any revolutionary group would have to consist of people who had a wide knowledge of technical manuals and scientific insights and industry expertise and could actually produce new technologies or methods to make work easier or personally produce whatever other societal change they want such as green technologies that can displace oil. if they can't personally create a robust industry of green technologies, no societal change.
effectively, anarcho-capitalism would already exist in practice, hidden inside an ineffective democracy headed by more oligarchs.


---
v1

The pressure of industry

the effect of letting capitalism stand:
as people or corporations compete their way up to more exclusive slots, they are under more pressure to perform. each time there is a promotion or a buyout you take on all the responsibility of that position in the economy

twitter persuading everyone to use twitter means twitter corporation is under pressure to run the service well for billions of people, when in reality it appears to be sitting atop some very old code

pokémon becoming "the world's top grossing multimedia franchise!" results in pokémon having to put huge pressure on its workers to deliver the world's best game series with not much staff in a very limited amount of time. this has already resulted in two generations of games that were widely panned for not being up to standard on graphical appearance and then on performance.

elon musk is a particularly interesting example because I heard Liberals defend the institution of Elon Musk getting to develop United States spacecraft just because 'there was no better way to do it',
though later when he bought Twitter there was a mix of calling him out for right-wing social opinions and mocking him for not being able to run the company well.
these two reactions are a bit contradictory because they vaguely suggest that if Elon had run the company exceptionally well the progressive movement might have collapsed as people came to the realization that capitalism ran on talent alone and 'we'll never have a perfect slate of progressive CEOs across the board, so they can all just be bigots'.
this wouldn't happen any time in the near future, but why is that? how can people hold in their heads the two contradictory beliefs that only a really exceptional person gets to run a public service by buying it, and it should be possible to ensure all these people are progressive in a society where out of the half of people that even care about social issues half of them are reactionary?


winning the mandate of competence
a thing that happens primarily inside Liberal nation-states but is a problem for all people inside that nation-state




>> 1669510507 intro
:: sep./ar. 1670389833
:: t. 8670389833
