

Liberal Stalinism or Stalinist Liberalism - the overlap between communist thought and Liberalism, where it is believed that strongly asserting a correct point while conceding nothing is the same as "using reason to solve conflicts".
this is not using reason. this is using force. and we see this best demonstrated with vaccine hesitancy. people need to get these vaccines to survive, essentially they must come to an agreement with others in order to survive, but they don't want to. then the center-Liberal or science-minded side asserts that they should submit to the correct position or die. it is natural processes carrying out these deaths rather than an executioner, but there is still a problem because this policy is resulting in virus transmission the whole time society will not truly come to an agreement to stop transmission and hinges the whole thing on pressuring the people who refuse to reason to accept a certain thing or die.

people want to call the 1930s? famine in Ukraine inappropriate labels like "a genocide"
but this is much closer to the category of things it belongs in. Stalin's government asserted that people should cooperate with the plan to build collective farms. when people did not cooperate the society let them die. then Stalin's government says to the people who cooperated, you should feel good about having the correct position, you shouldn't feel bad other people died because we're the correct ones. in this way natural processes killed the uncooperative people, but leaving people to die if they did not accept a particular position was a form of force.

trotsky admits that the initial effort to rebuild the economy contained small versions of this kind of force simply because there was no other way to compensate people for work and give them a normal job than to create a temporary "unfree market" where people would be assigned specific tasks so there was a minimum amount of economic activity for everyone to exchange, rather than everyone having to haphazardly figure out how to rebuild their own individual lives and build what they needed to survive while people were already suffering.
this seems like the only sensible way to have solved the problem.
but, in the wake of later events like the famine in Ukraine, people went digging through earlier history to try to prove the Bolsheviks' earlier approaches were everything they knew and led directly into later disasters. in light of the way the United States interpreted the Soviet Union, it seems that we should think more deeply about whether our own approaches to getting reactionaries to cooperate with social goals are flawed and could have "scaling problems" that result in mass disasters.

this is a very inconvenient thing for communists to have to accept because it means every past workers' state has to be thoroughly examined for the smallest mistakes.
however, if we are able to master the idea that cooperation is a back-and-forth dialectical activity and does not include out-arguing people if we do not want it to turn into force, we may finally be able to take over the field of "changing society with reason" and end the pervasive problem of Liberals (and Dengists) trying to act like out-arguing individuals with confrontational debates / "the neosubject" / efforts to herd different groups of people with different demands who require entirely different messaging onto one giant voting bloc just to win / a general attitude of superiority is equal to using reason and can never be force.



<= 1669510507 intro
:: cr. 1670288126
