# dialectics all the way down


rothenberg and žižekians attempted to create a "model of the social" based on conceiving of society as a bunch of interacting individuals
i didn't have a big problem with the basic idea of this
but the direction they took it and the conclusion they drew was completely useless
it was something like, society is nothing more than a network of interacting individuals.... but with this we should do absolutely nothing because individuals are not truly related to anything around them and move seemingly randomly.
in a way they almost declared that the social connections between individuals are illusory and society is necessarily solipsistic


i have a large printed image at my house, a print of an acrylic painting going across a wall
the printed image is composed of a bunch of extremely small dots of solid colours - cyan, yellow, magenta, and black - dithered into other colours
if you look at one tiny square millimetre of this image you can see the individual dots. you can see a sea of mostly yellow dots and some darker dots inside it
but if you zoom out to the scale of about a square centimetre, that collection of dots has interacted within the human visual system to produce some kind of mustard or olive colour

each of the dots has particular characteristics within it - solid yellow, solid black, round, ink, small - but when the dots are put together, those individual characteristics interact together to produce a larger united group with particular characteristics - a larger swatch of olive dots which appears entirely olive until you look very closely and see the individual dots again

zoom out further, and you can see that discrete swatches of dithered colours form together into organic shapes within the painting such as some kind of image of a rock or tree
but more than that, only when you look at the whole painting spanning an entire wall do you start to realise how many tiny dots there really are in that painting and even how many swatches of dithered dots there are - the swatches only reduce the number of dots by a factor of about 50 or so.


many processes in nature act like the printed dots

chemistry is a notable one.
in every glass of water, there are ions made of hydrogen and oxygen atoms. like the printed dots, there are a whole lot of positive hydrogen ions and negative hydroxide ions bumping around against each other, interacting, sending an electron from the hydroxide ion to the hydrogen ion and back as all the molecules run into more molecules around them. one hydroxide ion will pick up a hydrogen and become a water molecule, then more hydrogens will run into it and it will have to lose one of the first few hydrogens to keep a stable number. one hydrogen ion will pick up a hydroxide and run into another hydroxide and end up on that one.
water is very dynamic. sometimes the atoms are bonded, sometimes they are simply magnetically connected at the poles of the molecules, but in any case, water is made of many small pieces and they are always changing through the interactions between them, which occur in every direction through three-dimensonal space.
but, when we zoom out to the microscopic and macroscopic scale we simply see a drop of water with the properties of a liquid, a solvent, a convenient heat sink which can absorb a lot of heat before evaporating.


below chemistry there is quantum physics.
inside each atom there are protons, neutrons, and electrons.
but each proton or neutron is actually a group of interacting quarks.
a proton is modelled as two up quarks and a down quark, while a neutron is modelled as an up quark and two down quarks, and an electron is another quark-sized particle. (the up and down quarks have opposite charges much the way the proton they might form compares with an electron, hence their names.)

however, this simple model of the proton and neutron is only the /average/ of what is inside one of these nucleons.
as the three quarks interact with each other, they create a physical interaction between them called a gluon. 
the gluon is another fundamental particle like a quark, electron, or photon, but also much like a photon, it can act as a unit of energy transferred from one use of energy to another. in a plant cell, a photon hits pigments in a chloroplast and adds its quantum of energy to an electron which will leave the molecule and end up on other molecules to power chemical reactions elsewhere. in a nucleon, quarks continuously "react" with each other forming and breaking gluons.

it's easy for the nature of this process to get accidentally obscured by the fact quantum physicists like to name everything as a particle in order to count numbers of them and send these numbers through equations and diagrams - two quarks interacting one way equals a particular number and kind of other particles.
however, a nucleon is actually surprisingly comparable to a glass of water.
there is so much forming and breaking of gluons between the three quarks that the nucleon can be said to contain a "sea of virtual particles" which only exist for short times but are basically all different transformations of the energy exchanged between the quarks. a reaction between quarks becomes a gluon, which becomes short-lived virtual particles, which are transformed back to the quarks or a gluon. [? check]
there is also an asymmetry in the properties of quarks which makes it possible for a quark to equal a different quark and other particles, which means these other particles can be emitted when an atom like carbon-14 decays over thousands of years. carbon-14 seems like a solid substance over years and decades, but over millennia, the interactions among all the parts of the atom result in it eventually losing small quantum-scale pieces and becoming a slightly smaller atom.


quantum physics really shows how Liberal philosophy has made science difficult to communicate and understand.
although scientists have been able to accurately discover the behaviour of quantum fields and particles through rigorous mathematics,
everybody including scientists acts baffled by the simple idea that a photon cannot exist in isolation to the universe around it and any attempt to measure it requires interacting with it.
"the universe is not locally real!! it only has measurable properties when we interact with it!"
no, scientists are just failing to understand the notion that, especially at very small scales, nothing in the universe exists in isolation and it always exists in relation to and interaction with the things around it such that either of the things can change each other. the photon can never be removed from the thing measuring it to the point it is not changed by the measuring device, or else it would not be measured.

really, quantum physics becomes vastly more intuitive if you understand dialectics.
once you understand the idea of emergent scales of things - atoms creating molecules with new properties, quarks creating nucleons with new properties - most of the "weirdness" of the quantum scale seems to come from the fact that it is small, hard to isolate from its emergent effects, and vastly more unstable and full of continuous interactions than larger scales of the universe such as a helium atom or a planetary system.
"virtual particles are so weird, they exist and stop existing" so do a lot of brief chemical interactions in common substances like water, which are simply transformed into other structures and interactions, just like virtual particles.

to be fair, the fuzzy character of the smallest scales of the universe is very strange
when we model it, it looks as if ridiculously tiny pieces of the universe are interacting with each other so fast we could not possibly observe it in anything resembling real time or with any kind of precision.
it looks something like a glass of water where all the transformations of ions or molecules into other structures are so fast and elusive we can mostly only observe them if they happen in large amounts and coalesce into blobs of universe-stuff big enough to be stable and interact with that we call a quantum or fundamental particle.
it's not that the photon is changed by our observations and our deliberate choice to interact with parts of the universe is special. it's that /we only see/ the photon when it interacts and changes something. we /defined/ the idea of a quantum in a quantum field as the minimum amount of universe-stuff that can cause an interaction with its surroundings.
and then we were brazen enough to ask why, in a universe where we only have nucleons and atoms and matter and ourselves because of interactions between things, why it is that a "quantum" cannot be observed without changing it.


finally, there are black holes.
I could not explain these objects entirely because physical science itself cannot yet fully explain them.
however, one possible model of the structure of a black hole is very interesting.
in the so-called "fuzzball" model, physicists have considered the idea that the universe /ends/ at a black hole. "inside" the black hole there might exist only the sparsest bits of universe (highly stretched strings or their equivalent in another mathematics), while the entire universe around the black hole is actually bent outward in the shape of a black hole.

before this, Bekenstein had attempted to understand black holes with equations of entropy. if matter went into a black hole, it had to be transformed into whatever constitutes a black hole proportional to how much matter went in. so he created a model where the "information" that distinguished a black hole from others of different sizes ended up being proportional to its surface area.

the possibility this equation might be extremely literal sounds wild unless you already have a dialectical understanding of quantum physics.
if the universe is all just a bunch of interactions in the first place, it is not as hard to comprehend the possibility that maybe the way time itself seems distorted at the black hole and increasingly nobody can perceive light or events happening as you go further into the black hole is because at some point between the outside and the centre of the black hole there /is/ no time. if spacetime were material in some sense, it would be possible to rip apart quantum phenomena and then rip apart spacetime itself.
likewise the black hole could not "get better with time", but even in the absence of time the concept of entropy and unstable systems that collapse through interactions would still exist, so through quantum interactions the black hole would still close itself emitting heat back into the regular spacetime it was yielding to.
certainly, if any of this were true it would end the age-old question about the meaning of "before the big bang". we would not need to confuse ourselves with the word "before" if entropy rules and interactions between extremely small things could exist without time, and spacetime was simply something that existed inside interactions.

this model of a black hole is not confirmed. there is not yet any confirmed theory of quantum gravity to back up any particular model of a black hole and what mechanism makes space so distorted or what might be "inside" the black hole at the mathematical singularity where equations predicted infinite density.



this is what Marxists are getting at when they say that all of science or nature is dialectical
as far as we can discern with current science, it appears that everything in our universe is made of various kinds of emergent effects from smaller component parts interacting with each other in all directions.

to use a figure of speech, it's dialectics all the way down.

Liberals easily understand spatial layouts of things like people and nations and inner divisions of a republic, but not that any spatial arrangement inherently leads to /interactions/ between the spatially-arranged things, and that no person or country or political party can be considered in complete isolation to others and evaluated for its "ability to thrive" independent of its effects on other things.



now we can get an idea of where the Žižekian model of societal atoms should have gone.

if we want to posit that individuals are the atomic unit of society, we must allow for the idea of individuals uniting together into emergent effects analogous to the way atoms form molecules or polymers or shapes of matter.

Lacanians really dislike the concepts of "ideology" and "identity"
we must consider the idea that, instead of being some kind of aberration to be avoided, individuals uniting together into some kind of political "identity" is simply one of the successful results of atomic individuals interacting. some particular movement might not be a complete or final stage, it may need to be expanded out to a wider area and number of people, but this notion of trying to get rid of all "identities" may be greatly overcomplicating what is needed to change society if not creating an obstacle to making any change whatsoever.

further, the implications of creating an atomic model of society are much deeper and richer than the limited scope Žižekians operate in.
an atomic model of civilization has the potential to moot several anticommunist discourses, to solve difficult questions about the transition to postcapitalism, and possibly to unify previously separate ideologies.
this is nothing less than a major breakthrough for Marxism, which Lacanians would like to overlook simply to preserve Liberal ideas.







=> https://journals.aps.org/prd/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevD.7.2333  n. Bekenstein 1972
;
:: cr./ar. 1671947517
:: Dialectics-Whole-Way
; << 8671954695 dots
