## a spatial history

It appears that in the course of analyzing different kinds of class society and trying to dissect capitalism, Marx made a subtle but important error.
This error was at least mostly corrected by the time of Lenin and the Third International, who had to face the consequences of the error. But some theorists following off Western Marxism, dialectical anarchism, and similar traditions that reject Bolshevism continue to repeat and magnify Marx's error.

just for context, Engels' first few stages of human history
patriarchy
european tribes

warring states periods - spain, england, china, japan
kingdom & manor system - a completed warring states period
nation-state - a democratic kingdom, not much more
british india - corporate government to exploit collapsed india
colony cycle
corporations for creating settlements to exploit new world
settlement corporations give rise to smaller corporations
us buys alaska and louisiana territory. /buys/. /invests in/.
how did the slave trade first start, I do not even remember

we can see that the connecting thread between feudalism and corporations was not the manor system
an empire /invests in/ land and gets to exploit it and all its people
a corporation invests in a slice of civilization or industry, which can grow far bigger than a medieval manor, it can be an area the size of the United States
this means as corporations grow they become like the /warlords/ of modern times that conquer large but arbitrary areas of land, not the landlords.
treating corporations as warlords already suggests a possibility they cannot compete forever and will eventually naturally unify into a single "kingdom". which resembles the real pattern we see of corporations coagulating into Industry Blobs that own vast arrays of "competing" brands, or even a Blob that owns other Blobs.

kingdoms don't have to stop either. historically, nation-sized kingdoms have expanded themselves even further to become giant empires that conquer other kingdoms. the Russian Empire is one such kingdom - on its coat of arms you can see the coats of arms of eight(?) smaller kingdoms.
the Bolsheviks made it part of their program to liberate the subordinate territories into their own republics and turn the Russian Empire into a comparatively more democratic federation.

as soon as the world had giant empires - which really began somewhere around 2000 BCE - it became possible for empires to compete with other civilizations over the same geographic areas.
but as soon as it was possible for empires to compete over the same groups of people, it was possible for them to choose different fates for those people - to capture them as slaves for the Roman Empire, to claim they were going to be the best rulers of China, to decide they would be mere resource mines for the British Empire to sell products to other modern empires.

in this way we can begin to see how Liberal elections and corporate buyouts are both ways of "conquering" a large swath of people within a country, although the two things are very different in character.
if you win an election, you are supposed to act in the best interests of the whole area.
but if you buy a giant section of industry, you only need to produce value for /somebody/ who will buy its products, not necessarily the workers or even the consumers downstream from an immediate wholesaler. this allows a big enough capitalist to treat all outside industries like the colonies of the British Empire, mercilessly expanding over what already exists and demanding more and more output to sell.

at the same time, the world began a new project of "British" Liberalism, where empires were to be made "fairer" by allowing anyone to start a business empire.
this was something of a lie because the United States, Canada, and Australia all began with established corporations, and the system created was at every moment going to be a hierarchical system where the older businesses were bigger and could outcompete the smaller ones, unless they performed spectacularly and became the new established order ready to prevent /future/ small corporations from rising.

the ultimate trick of capitalism was to create a civilization out of constantly-churning mini-civilizations that would rise and fall in a matter of years, and leave regular humans searching for the best mini-civilization to fight for against other ones simply to survive.
this intensified version of the whole human experience thousands of years ago would simply be dubbed "A Job" and sold as an integral part of human life.
but it would muddle the entire conversation about what it means to be a responsible adult, a good citizen, a Liberal democrat, an ally of the oppressed, an anti-authoritarian, an anti-imperialist.


[rewrite, the point of this section has become unclear]





angle 2:

at one time kings owned all the country they could take
we get distracted by the fact they could hand areas to nobles and manor lords, when we should be thinking about the fact that every kingdom was fighting every other for the earth's resources in a way that technically wasn't really necessary but things like religions pushed countries toward it

marx claims that the modern notions of enclosed Property which is basically just money and businesses began when people formed towns and created associations of small craftsmen who had to defend themselves against basically everything else including other guilds and rural people   [*gi1]


when did the antagonism of worker vs worker actually begin, where are its roots? i am not sure







=> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Lesser_Coat_of_Arms_of_Russian_Empire.svg  *lcre. Lesser Coat of Arms of Russian Empire ;
=> https://www.oldest.org/politics/empires/  *re2. 8 oldest empires in the world ;
=> https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1845/german-ideology/ch01c.htm  *gi1
;
:: cr. 1670308052
<= 1669510507 intro
