
---

good computers are a casualty of capitalism
we have to agitate for the right to modify and refurbish computers, recycling them is not realistic at this time


the most promising computer was made in close communication with a factory in china
but outside china's industry blob
it couldn't be shipped within china because it was not certified
so perhaps to overcome apple et al and create some kind of okay computer everybody can actually have the chance to use you've gotta get into china's industry blob
perhaps we have to start in the Industry Blob of one country and turn the blob international?? such that the 'new phone' could conceivably overtake other multinational globs of computer industry like Apple.

---

"commodity fetishism" is putting the blame in the wrong place
increasingly the real problem is a "non-cooperation" of commodities such that whenever something is unsatisfactory, including if it should be compatible with something else and it isn't or it should have a bit more functionality than it does, we simply produce further self-contained Finished Products to compete with and trash our previous two products. put simply, if the wheel doesn't fit the car, we reinvent the wheel AND reinvent the car.
it is not really that people attach magical properties to new computers as much as that they find their previous devices were terribly designed for the future, and have no choice when a device proves inadequate in the future but to hope capitalism will produce a better separate device they can buy. that they can solve the problem by delegating the task to another self-contained corporation and self-contained product, when really that task might be something that should be solvable by upgrading existing products.

"commodity fetishism" is really more like "delegation fetishism"
we know everything has to be delegated according to the rules so we hope delegation will in fact solve our problems. but by now physical products abstract away the act of delegation. we don't have to delegate laundry to a laundry service, we delegate it to a washing machine. but if we really wanted the washing machine to do something it doesn't do, we must delegate it to another machine produced by another group of people, unless corporations make the decision for us to connect those two groups of people through some kind of buyout or agreement.

[edit:] I did not quite know what commodity fetishism is and thought it had to do with consumers, although it is still kind of related

---





=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ebv3GiKyCaw  n. Is This the Most Sustainable Smartphone?  ; fairphone
:: ar. 1670890754
:: t. 8670714924
>> 1670714924 linux
