

people often misunderstand the soviet union as a 'normal' kind of factionalism and think that a multi-party workers' state would be sufficient to fix the problem
but really as soon as there was the Trotskyite conspiracy it was beginning to break apart into two civilizations, and simply having political parties could never solve the problem of people not wanting to be part of the same democracy and attempting to form two separate democracies

by the time of the trumpist conspiracy in the United States it becomes clear why people might mistakenly think this. they could not recognize the pattern of a democratic republic splitting in two within their own country, and people would continually try to claim it was the voters that were wrong to make noise about the election and not those who believed the process of elections and peaceful transfer of power could go on indefinitely without there eventually being a time the democratic republic would break apart into two democratic republics that each had entirely different ideas about the definition of republics and parties and elections.




the french revolution built a republic over a monarchy
the united states built a republic over what, random other people groups? and now it is largely oblivious to its split into two separate civilizations of which one might be very out of control
this would not be so bad with an understanding of "internal contradictions" and that everything uncovers new antagonisms in its development which could simply develop it further and do not need to destroy it. but we don't have that understanding in the united states
as a result it's as if we're powerless to stop a battle between two civilizations over land and accompanying resources they took from other people
there's no way we can "run colonialism in reverse" if we're still in the middle of a virtual war between two colonialisms that get angry and oppressive when people aren't loyal to one or both of them
except perhaps to hand over the central government of the United States to remaining native americans and make it so that every current US citizen sits on a territory of the united states which cannot run the central government






while it may sound shocking i think there may actually be an argument that a bunch of the united states is in fact ready for a one-party state.

to understand what this claim means, you first have to understand that the purpose of an institution like the Communist Party of China is really different from the purpose of a Liberal political party. it is actually a government structure that performs functions rather than a simple ideological grouping of people or special interest group trying to shape a government external to it. "party" is probably the wrong word for one of these things once it gets established and basically morphs itself into a state

a whole lot of the United States is tired of political parties in such a way they simply want policies to be enacted that are good and don't actually care what parties there are or what candidates there are or even what the parties are doing. some people vote for different parties arbitrarily, others have stopped voting.
a peculiar idea that goes around is that nothing should "be political" and people are tired of "politics". they want anything but political parties and elections. they want a good economy, good products, and good jobs, with nobody talking about candidates or a political party in their lives. despite the fact that when people are only given the ability to choose a political party this would be the end of democracy. which is to say, for many people democracy has already ended and capitalism and protests are the new government.
one way to solve this problem is to create a nonpartisan government structure which does not have political parties fighting over it, and only /has/ individual political issues and elections to individual political positions.





; cr. 1673227466
