the death of property


what does it mean to have no more capitalism ever again

it means to have a world where people truly own personal property by being allowed to replicate it at any time
there cannot be any property which is based on removing and denying personal property.
are you technically allowed to copy your house? probably. you own it.
are you allowed to copy a book? no. you don't own it.
are you allowed to copy a Microsoft or Apple computer OS? no. you don't own it.
can somebody copy an entire brand name store into a clone store? no. this store does not belong to the public.

everything that we are not allowed to replicate is a liability. it is a temporary and poor substitute for the real thing.
we are solidly out of capitalism when everybody is allowed to replicate anything made available to the public in case of disaster or simply not having that thing yet, and allowed to freely add to or modify it if applicable


free software, open hardware, the mostly untapped world of Free Culture,
these are all good examples of what the death of property would look like

when property is dead,
people have the ability to spontaneously do work to solve their own day-to-day problems rather than applying to some kind of property institution to ask to be allowed to do work
this comes with difficulties and responsibilities as well as freedom - how do we each learn to operate, fix, and improve absolutely everything around us when previously that required specialists?

i suspect that the project of killing property will not always be a case of every individual being able to build and understand a computer or a washing machine
but instead, it will often be a case of creating "real organizations" which can replace the fake and unstable work organizations based on property


in this way
the transition out of Bolshevism is a transition from the people having to rely on ministries or corporations to the people actually taking more things into their own hands and local areas in order to be free of depending on these property organisations
however, it cannot be done haphazardly by random individualists because there is a lot to be done
we should think of civilization as half constructed and not entirely functional
although the the first half that included constructing physical buildings, roads, and other costly and disruptive activities won't necessarily look like what the second half will be.

we should remember that the ultimate goal of Bolshevism is to stop doing Bolshevism
but in order to fulfill all the lofty ideas about not depending on government and not having bureaucracy and loosening the control of the nation-state, we need to actively construct the things that will allow citizens to free themselves from these things, or else it will never be possible
this will be a large and collective effort whoever does it and organizes it. it does not actually matter if government does it or citizens do it, but it is definitely a lot of work and requires a lot of organization and commitment onto the same ideas and projects






:: cr. 1676777753
:: t. Death-of-Property
