

"freedom of speech"
freedom of dialectic, not freedom of argument
encourage people to 'challenge prevailing narratives' but to yield when they are actually wrong
kant and the idea of mutually exclusive thingies instead of a dialectic




we need to rethink the notion of "voluntary"
much of our definitions of concepts like "voluntary" and "freedom" are undialectical, considering an individual in some kind of vacuum where their decisions neither affect anybody else nor require anybody else to accomplish
however in the real world both of these are often not the case
often, many things are not a question of freedom versus imposition but of whether two parties cooperate toward the same goal or fight with each other and block each other's advancement toward each other's goals.

this can be very hard to understand and realize in a world where often small groups of people control a large area and make decisions for everyone in that area.
because nobody can imagine it not being that way, political discourse always seems to turn into, does the small group of rulers give us freedom to do what we want to or restrict us from what we want to do?

however, even in a time of class society and nation-states, it should be evident that there is a dialectical relationship between representatives and the people.
it is sometimes possible for representatives to be in line with what the people want and cooperate with the people to carry out policies people actually wanted.
but there can also be different kinds of discordant relationships between the government and the people.
there can be a discordant relationship where people are dissatisfied with the government, a whole lot of people are dissatisfied, and the people unite together and decide the government is illegitimate and has nothing to do with the people it governs and the goals of the people.
there could also be a discordant relationship where a chunk of people are dissatisfied with the government but a lot of people have no problem with the government and see it as cooperating with them, and the discontentment about the government comes to be thought of as a traitorous activity that goes against the people.

why is there a difference between insurrection and revolution?
why aren't they simply the exact same thing by different names where it depends entirely on the specific historical situation and political issues whether that thing is justified?
because the government and political parties aren't the thing that matters.
a civilization is always a dialectical relationship between all its citizens interacting with each other in a network.
even if there are separations inside the civilization where small groups of people make decisions for larger groups, the overall process of the civilization is one of all the citizens attempting to unite together and constructively combine their individual goals into shared goals while avoiding interference from other groups of people who dislike that goal and want to stop it, who may also be united toward their opposing set of goals.


thus we can see that the kind of discourse that goes on in places like the United States about "freedom from progressive tyranny" or even "freedom from homophobia and transphobia" is decidedly outdated.
ideas in the United States that you simply pursue "freedom" from people who are imposing on you some kind of unjust vision of what rights humans should have cannot solve the actual problem happening on the ground level, which is that civilization begins with a network of people interacting with each other to agree on correct ideas and /civilization is breaking down/.

this is not to say that human beings' social rights are determined by some kind of vulgar numerical consensus and conservatives can simply band together in large numbers to abolish the concepts of gender identity or same-sex marriage justified only by the fact that they assembled a number of people together who support this position.

along with civilization, material human bodies also exist, and distress is a material and physiological process of the human body. human distress can be objectively confirmed in various ways like measuring stress hormones, heart rate, and various other biological signals.
this means that there objectively exist times when human beings are being put through unreasonable requirements by others. we cannot infinitely invent Ideas of what society should be and impose whatever ideas we want onto other people without running into the limits of the human body to withstand the physiological stress of such things as transphobia, denial of autism and disabilities, and terrible working conditions.

in this way there can also be said to be a dialectic between human beings' mental models of civilization and the material human body. we will not always precisely know how people are physically affected by their role in civilization, and it is always possible to make errors about how particular decisions in building our civilization or aligning groups of people together onto the same goal will affect different groups of people and contribute toward collective well-being at different levels or perhaps detract from it.
in making societal decisions we are often reduced to working out objective, scientific material problems of human distress through imperfect human communication and social procedures. there is not necessarily a good way around this which will transform determining oppression into some kind of precise lab science. we will simply have to accept that science is here to rigorously confirm that objective phenomena exist as ordinary events in our world, but civilization will always be a dialectic between individuals to gradually agree on a shared reality and negotiate whether to align onto individual goals.

the fact that these errors are possible should not terrify people about improving society, nor lead them to models based on seemingly-random individual decisions and "The Unconscious" being the only way to collectively decide on anything. this is simply a matter of continuing the dialectic and correcting the errors that happen at each level before they cause more problems.
there will not necessarily be a perfect society that never rediscovers the same errors, but what there can be is a society which is prepared to identify known errors and stop them before they cause as much trouble as they did the first time.











<= v3-Intro
:: cr./ar. 1671591676
:: t. 8671591676
