# A new Marxism?


Why aren't the people of the United States resisting capitalism?
Capitalism has done some pretty unspeakable things to us.
It's bought up all the houses,
it's left certain towns with polluted water that nobody wants to fix,
it's made sure our political parties take away abortion rights, and then offered to give them back to us only within particular corporations.
it's run into the fabled "common cold which is actually deadly", and allowed millions and millions of people to get it, shortening the estimated lifespan of multiple millions of people and making it really unappealing to travel to the United States, all just to keep the economy open.

Decades ago, it carved up a bunch of workers with little shards of asbestos and gave them mesothelioma,
which other people, probably better paid, now make their job to get you a little bit of compensation for.
You know that one mesothelioma ad that goes around as a funny internet joke like some kind of commercial jingle? That shouldn't be a funny joke. it should have been the basis for an entire labor movement.


So why aren't we all resisting yet?
Well, I can think of a few reasons.








At this point it seems like the most common way that capitalism exerts control over us is not in workplaces, but in consumer products.
You may have to think about this for a moment for it to make sense,
but think about terms of service, and think about gigantic conglomerates.

If you so much as buy a product and use it, you may find in the box this weirdly long set of terms of service.
You buy a prepaid mobile phone, and I saw in one of those that supposedly you're not supposed to take them to other countries or they'll be deactivated, and you can't modify them, or there'll be consequences.
I don't actually know or remember what the consequences are for modifying one of these things as an individual.
I'd guess it would just be deactivation and companies saying you can't use their plans.

But this does get worse because of the factor of conglomerates, and the fact that most people aren't completely adept with modifying technology.
Regular people who don't know everything about the inner workings of hardware and operating systems are probably going to have to rely on repair shops, which are probably going to have to put some condition on there that you can't use the phone except the way the manufacturer intended.

And then you effectively create this closed system where the manufacturer and the repair shop,
which may be given official licenses by the manufacturer or operating system corporation,
act together to ensure that users won't use the phone in any other way than the corporation intended if they want to be able to repair their phone, or they want to be able to use the services.

We see a pattern in corporations where all the smaller businesses /die/,
they just can't make enough money to stay in business /or/ the bigger corporations buy them out,
and what we end up with is a system where there are just a few giant providers of everything — perhaps they're the vendors —
but they have control over everything, and they can put whatever dumb terms they want to on products just for you to be allowed to buy them and use them.   [*hsc]

In this system of "monopoly capitalism", one of the few ways for people to bring back competition and simply be allowed to create a service that can actually improve and be better again is for random people to just kind of independently cobble together something.
People see that all the products and services they use are really unsatisfactory and have really unsatisfactory contracts,
so they just go try to independently invent something that they can now maintain as a community through random bursts of effort, and perhaps just give away for free, with the only real cost to use it being that you have to create it or it won't be there.

The most notable and perhaps biggest example of this is the Free Software movement.
People essentially just one day got so fed up with control over computer software by groups like Microsoft and Apple that they simply decided, well, we're going to build some new software, and because this is ours, there won't be those restrictions on it any more and we'll ensure that everybody can use it the way they want to.

In a sense, they accidentally discovered the idea of abolishing private property,
because in order to remove control over software, you pretty much have to remove the right to exclusively sell software — or any other so-called "intellectual property" — as this kind of investment by a business in machinery exclusively held by them in order to make a profit.

Of course, the shape of the Free Software movement much more closely resembles anarchism than Marxism.

It basically started with a bunch of individuals spontaneously realizing,
hmm, there's some kind of unfair restriction or hierarchy on me, and I'm just going to resist it without any particular theory of how it got there, and certainly that will be enough to break it open. We just have to keep resisting and putting in brute force and then it just won't exist any more.

But there's one problem: capitalism already has an answer to anarchism.

You can try to build up the Free Software movement or some community effort like this where people provide the products,
however, capitalism is going to try to defeat you by already monopolizing that space so that people will think there is no need to improve the products because that space is already taken up by capitalism.

It's kind of like there is a hidden struggle between items rather than people,
where capitalist items outcompete anarchist items on the market and then people are pushed out from resisting capitalism because there are only capitalist products, and the capitalist jobs that have to make them,
and then capitalism can force you to try to compete for the limited slots of capitalist jobs just to be able to have any influence on capitalism.


In this way, it's like we need a different model or calculation than before in order to understand how capitalism works now.
Like, maybe the relationship of people we should be focusing on isn't really the exploitation of workers mathematically by bosses.
Maybe we have to build some new calculation which centers around the idea of contracts that people place on each other.

Because I feel like economic contracts in various parts of society may be the main thing that keeps us from resisting now.
But they're also universal to a bunch of parts of society.

We have the basic contract of capitalism where most people have to work for a capitalist to have a job and earn a wage.
But there are also other contracts, like, people have to put up with their bigoted family for material support in order to make it to the point where they can get a job, and leave.
Some people may have to put up with a particular church controlling jobs and forcing its beliefs on anybody who wants to have a job in that area.
Some people have to put up with terrible racist requirements where they have to conform to some really stupid standard of behavior and "look white" to keep their job.

And, of course, a lot of people simply have to put up with really stupid contracts to use consumer products, because giant monopoly corporations have control over them and you can now only take the product or leave it, and trash a product that probably doesn't need to be trashed and buy a new one.

I question if sometimes maybe we create unreasonable contracts while trying to get organized,
like maybe an anarchist movement has unreasonable requirements for what you're supposed to accomplish if you want to participate in it,
or maybe a United States "social-democratic" movement requires you to put up with way too much of capitalism in order to "resist capitalism" in its definition.


And, yeah, there would be a few different moving parts in the event this theory came together coherently and was finished into something that made sense.
Right off the bat, you have contracts between individuals or economic organizations, and this notion of competition over slots in the economy.

Another factor that I think comes into play is ideological factions.

So the big idea is kind of like,
if we want to get organized to stop capitalism,
we have to realize that our economy is kind of made up of slots, and we're going to have to struggle over how those slots are going to be filled, maybe even /compete/ over it in a sense.

I had a lot of clarity when I found the Bolshevik report about converting idle army units to work in the economy.
After a while of thinking about it in different iterations, I came to the realization that... oh, so it's like,
the economy has a bunch of positions, but at one time the Liberals controlled all of them, and then the Bolsheviks controlled them, and they were able to simply go to work building a new economy. They didn't have anything to pay people at first, but they simply got everyone to work.
And through arranging everybody to cooperate — at least, after a fashion — on a single vision for the new economy they were going to build, they were able to build up a new economy from almost nothing.

People want to say that the way the Bolsheviks took over the economy and the country was "too brutal", etc, and maybe it's okay to make that kind of criticism.
But I think that if we want to make it our goal to figure out [how] to end capitalism and turn over the economy in a less brutal way, here's what we're going to have to think about.

To build an economy, we have to come to agreements about what we're going to build and how we're going to build it.

But until basically the day that we start attempting to build the new economy,
we're going to be struggling over what role we each are going to play in it and what relationships we're going to have, and what structures we're going to have, and what the plan even is, what we're even doing.   [*A]

If we conceive of a republic as a society where all the individuals roughly agree to be part of the same society and to attempt to cooperate with each other in order to keep the society functioning, then, collectively we are trying to build a kind of economic republic.

But that means that within the economic republic,
what are today completely separate ideologies such as communism, anarchism, and Lacanianism are all going to have to start cooperating with each other, at least a little bit.
And ultimately, I think we can use dialectical materialism to bring different ideological factions into some kind of dialogue, where they can borrow ideas from each other, or new combination ideologies could be created.

I think that in general, the major theme in the process of creating the economic republic would be that instead of competing we try to come into cooperation.

Such that we can finally break the nasty pattern that seems to pervade /everything/ today that whenever you create some kind of group or organization it's always in competition with other ones,
where if people don't like your group they're going to go to some other group, and the groups are going to have to basically fight each other until the small ones die and the bigger ones get bigger. You might notice the way groups behave is strangely like the way corporations behave.

The other day when I was listening to a speech where people thought that Trotskyism was rising in Britain again,   [*swp]
I had a sudden realization —
wait, so, you say that the IMT is getting bigger and it's getting more members in its various chapters,
but, if we look back at the history of Trotskyism it's like,
in the beginning they tried to form the Fourth International, they thought that everybody was going to unify into one Trotskyism,
and then gradually, it fragmented into a bunch of small separate movements that were all kind of fighting each other,
they all had their favorite experts and they didn't really get along with the other ones,
and sometimes they would split apart, and those two wouldn't be cooperating with each other,
but now, over time, it seems that out of that competition one of them finally got bigger again by defeating the others. So this is the way that we build the Fourth International...?

	(i need to draw a kirby mitosis image but for trotskyism)









I think the greater idea I'm leaning toward is that we should redo historical materialism around the greater concept of markets being the mechanism that upholds classes.

I think people had already been fed a false idea into the time of Marx that markets were an entirely new thing and not an extension of what was previously.

But I tentatively put out the hypothesis that maybe we should think of it as,
previously nobles were competing for slots to be nobles,
and then capitalists were competing for slots to be capitalists,
and now workers compete for slots to be workers.

And it's of course still true that the competition between workers is an artificial thing forced on us by capitalists,
and we have to simply break it open and create a proletarian economy.

The challenge here is that Marx kicked off our movement, but he didn't understand how the sale of items corresponds to the sale of job positions and wage opportunities.

So now what we have is a system where capitalists maliciously hoard all our resources - such as houses and smaller businesses - to extract as much money out of them as possible, and workers non-maliciously hoard job slots in the sense that they'll get them as fast as possible and try to hang onto them.
I want to stress that workers clinging to job slots and "hoarding" them isn't usually an evil thing, usually it's just them being very focused on their survival.
although sometimes I think workers can become misled and begin treating their job slot as if they're the smallest bourgeoisie imaginable, looking down on people out of work and treating them like, well if I could make it - into a job slot - so could you.


So this means about two things to me:

First, in monopoly capitalism we face a kind of crisis of the ability to be useful to each other.

Second, although we don't necessarily have to worry about it right now,
maybe some day we'll have to think about the possibility that even in the era of socialism we could accidentally create harmful competition where for instance, people get booted out of their jobs because people didn't want that product and they preferred a different one.
This would probably be less of a problem than today, but it might have some implications in the United States, where like, I don't know, perhaps, black people in certain jobs would get booted out because people wanted the white-people products.












----

[scraps]


> Such that we can finally break the nasty pattern
not just Trotskyism, Lacanianism 14, the fact there are entirely different anarchisms that aren't working together even though one of the common conceits of anarchism is that undoing oppression is much simpler than communists want to think it is
I read about a split in a tiny Maoist organization in Canada once where the central committee and another part broke in two and only one of the pieces continued while the other one shut down.



remember, if we define a republic as basically people collectively owning a society and cooperating on the policies that will run it,
the republic we call the United States is in big trouble right now
it decided it was going to be composed of the Republicans and the Democrats, but that the two would never have to have a reasonable dialogue and update their beliefs, they would simply have to compete and compete and outcompete each other
and in the end they eventually decided not to cooperate at all.
the Democrats decided they were going to be not-entirely-against social democracy and they were certainly going to be for codifying civil rights,
while the Republicans flat-out decided that not only would they try to rip civil rights out of law and every constitution but also that they'd try to dismantle various levels of government. the Republicans basically decided, in irony with their name, that they did not want to have a republic, and they did not want to provide civil rights or services to anyone else.

honestly this is part of what turned me into such a staunch Marxist, it's like, if so much of our country is adamantly for moving all our rights solely into corporations then fucking move the entire government into industry and simultaneously sovietize it, you'll wish you hadn't been against government because now communism runs your privatized services and there's no going back because there's no Liberal government to lobby


if we have the United States - had? - because the people came together to create a republic,
it means both
left movements could choose to cooperate toward a general set of goals in order to build the new united states
the entire resistance to neoliberalism and fascism could fall apart because we're all in these separate ideologies with completely different next steps in mind and refuse to come together and hold together the economic republic




'you ARE the product!!'
not profound. not profound at all
blames individuals for not producing ridiculous amounts of value, which mathematically we can't do
"socialism" is the recognition that currently most workers being able to pay for their wants and needs with the jobs we give them is a lie, and each of our jobs being able to properly exchange for the services we use on the market is a lie
it's like the only people who can pay for the services corporations want to sell us are more corporations, so we invented advertisers
ads may have been the first harbinger capitalism really should have ended already


consequence of not cooperating is people shard
when people detach they can barely get anything done alone




no naïve Left Unity - only with dialectical materialism




---

[scraps 2]


We always make fun of Lysenko for going around peddling pseudoscience, but it turns out we're not against Lysenko at all. we'll put a handful of them into Congress if they believe the right religion


Lacanianism is unexpectedly everywhere now.
The other day I clicked up a video about Evangelion, which was supposed to be about existence and whether you want to exist, but - bam - in the middle of it there's Lacan again.
/I can't get away from him!/






---

[*hsc] For a good description of how capitalism has repeatedly congealed into single blobs of industry, and also how it's connected to world wars, see "Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism". [*hsc2]

[*A] This is referring to struggles between workers, not some kind of attempt to appease people who are currently bourgeois or petty-bourgeois and "concerned" about their role in a new proletarian economy.
My reference point is that Marxism-Leninism will want to build an economy one way and a particular anarchism will want to build it another way, and those two pictures of the economy might be difficult to simply compromise together to the point workers that should be allies will get into an argument — for example, maybe the Marxist-Leninist wants to create planning algorithms for the congealed industry blob and the anarchist insists on chopping parts of the blob back out and making them independent, or wants to be exempt from some particular planning circuit.

[*swp] There was a particular period around 1960 where Trotskyism got somewhat popular in Britain, and even somewhat unified. There had been about three different strands of it and then they actually fused together into (?).
So, in light of that, Trotskyism would be rising in Britain /again/.


=> https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1916/imp-hsc/  *hsc2. Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism (Lenin 1916) ;
;
=> https://prochurchmedia.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/In-The-Beginning.jpg
;
; unfinished video draft "anew"
:: cr. 1668665878
