# Everyday Democracy **

when trying to create a brief explanation of how my ideas of "markets shaping available jobs", "going from competition to cooperation", and "attempting to make peace between different ideological factions with entirely incompatible plans through dialectical materialism" fit together
I ended up evolving this all a bit further

I think I may have discovered the need for a new historical materialism? [I'm not sure how correctly I'm using that term]
this one would be built around the idea of separate competing elements unifying into monopolies and federations, inside of which there are new competitions that have to be solved through new federations


it seems now that ideological factions compete over the economy — such as communism, anarchism, and Lacanianism (which in contexts like this may just turn into a Trojan horse for center-Liberalism)


do we now have to contend with a reality that "consent to be governed" has been extended to the individual and their chosen ideology, and maybe even down to any plan or project the individual proposes?
this possibility poses challenges for Marxism because historically it has always assumed that "not everybody will be a communist" and you can build up a generic labor movement which can then unify with a communist party. but if individuals are all each resistant to being "governed" by a communist group, you won't be able to unify a communist party and all these resistant individuals into one Bolshevism.

of course, the Lacanian method for conceiving of politics as a bunch of freely-associating individuals is not very good. so if we chose to work from the angle of individuals winning over individuals we would need a different method which also considers the whole system the individuals exist in and compete over.
- we can possibly start at individuals, but we then have to work our way up to a large monopolistic system the individuals exist in where various people are trying to unify together into a movement to claim the slots in the system possibly at the expense of other such movements and their strategies and aims.
- there is always going to be a "parties competing" stage in order to select the new direction for the overall system, or there will /be/ no new direction. effectively people /must/ converge onto one party, even if it's an Interfactional party containing a few different ideologies.




<= 1666572500 outline
:: cr. 1669087933
