
"
There are a great many people who are fed up with life in the crowded areas of the world. Living with people under crowded conditions and realizing how selfish and worthless most of them are, can drive one to most anything. Putting up with traffic, dull uninteresting jobs, relatives, living in cities that would be sure atom bomb targets, can bring you to the breaking point. At times, it fills you right up to the brim and you want to get away from the nothingness of the rat race. You want to get back to plain living in the wilderness where $1.00 can be made to do the work of a thousand. You want to try to find real happiness. To do this, you must get back to nature. You must get to a place where you can honestly find God and worship Him.

I have a lot of friends who have done just this and would not exchange their lives for any other.

I will endeavor in this book to try to help you make such a thing possible for you if you desire it and to help you stop working harder than you should at work you do not care for. I am writing this book to bring out the truth about wilderness or isolation living for the first time. There have been any number of books written by promoters just to sell books that hardly contain a word of truth about wilderness living.
"
- Herter


---


> let me tell you, nothing makes it clearer what communism/anarchism is *supposed* to be doing than looking at the weird assumptions inside Libertarian bullshit

> it's like, human beings tried their best to build large civilizations and all these somewhat impressive things to increase the carrying capacity of earth.
> and then mr. herter looks at this and says, hmm, modern civilization is having a lot of problems, but I don't care what the answers are, we should just give up on all those other people and move to a remote cabin in the woods

> one thing I know clearly is that these Libertarian ideas that restoring the individual peasant is a good thing are such a dead end. this does nothing to solve the problem.... like, any of the problems



:: cr. 2023-01-11T08:00Z
:: ar. 1676694706
