[note 1-29: this is an old nonsensical blog draft from before I had any idea what I was doing whatsoever. it may not be true, accurate, or coherent]



# a real argument for communism?


i usually make it a principle to not advocate marxist-leninism
that i can only advocate specific goals that are a little too mind-blowing for most people, and probably technically fall under communist principles

i would read about the soviet union and china and the various things that happened in the past century
i always saw these things as the past
i never wanted to really think about the possibility of "red america" - a literal marxist-leninist usa


why would this be so scary when i actually don't have much to lose economically

well, even if i barely have anything there are still ways i could be hurt.
if "Stalinism" catches on i could get in trouble for not pretending to be cisgender and that lgbt organisations don't exist.
if the ability to freely publish fiction and analyses of governments is restricted i would lose one of two activities i even do any more
there are many situations that unfold in my head where i'm too smart or too nuanced and a communist government decides to throw me in the trash and i don't get to contribute art or knowledge or tools to make people more productive because i was made wrong. i was also made wrong for liberalism but i would still be made wrong.


then i was looking down a thing trying to make sense of what the fourth international is supposed to be
and on a barely-related tangent, i read about the technocracy movement in north america
and suddenly, something really hit me
not actually thanks to trotsky but instead thanks to the history of "technocracy inc"


trotsky points out Technocracy was attempting a kind of central planning
you look at the description of Technocracy and it rather literally sounds like the communist party of china or somewhere choosing policy experts to help in specific areas and then doing central planning, the only difference being that it would probably be privatised in some way or serving these not very visible positions in the government that were always appointed to begin with

predictably
americans reacted to it about the same way as communist governments, saying democracy was more important than making sure real actual experts were in positions of power.

but by the year 2020, that reaction looks completely ridiculous
letting the people determine who the experts will be through representative democracy has led us to Marjorie Taylor Greene the qanon expert, and other people in positions simply for their beliefs and opinions rather than what they know

i began to question everything

what does it mean if people really believe that democracy is way more important than anything else no matter what.
if democracy is the most important thing even when it produces the stupidest choices who don't know anything, and we just voted for these people (or let our choices in elections appoint these people) purely based on who seems to be more our personal allies than other candidates.
if voting for our allies is the most important thing even when the nearest thing to our allies are very close friends of big business and barely our allies.

what does it mean if the citizens of the soviet union really did in the earliest days want that more than what came before, even if they'd known it could later lead to so many of the officials having their own unique bad ideas, and some of them having the worst ideas.
what emotion would i feel if it had been the case that you interviewed some of the soviet citizens after 1964 when Stalin died and his positions couldn't be maintained any more, and they were like, nope, we still shouldn't be arbitrarily appointing experts or even electing them, if average people could get any idea how to run this thing that would be much better

to be honest i don't have a good idea at all of what those people would have said at that time.
[edit: fucking research it before finishing this article]

but it does seem plausible america could end up in a situation very much like that, with everything devastated due to bad policies but the people saying, no, we don't want to have less input than we have right now even though we know that every time we try to have input a stupid decision pops out.

i really thought for a while that one of the biggest problems with the soviet union had been that they couldn't get people who actually knew anything into the party.
(intentionally suppressing things like darwinian evolution did not help, but either way the end result was people did not know them and did not come into government knowing them.)
but what if that was not actually the solid evidence against the soviet union it seemed like, because at some point people would naturally put incredibly stupid officials into government in any system ever invented, or incredibly cruel ones.

if the most important thing to people is being able to choose who's in government and making sure those people are their allies, and not whether all evidence seems to indicate the choices in front of them are good choices.
is it inevitable that we have to change to some system where average kinds of people really can be in government or else just in smaller "workplace governments", and we get rid of the arbitrary "appointments" onto the ballot that end up being made for us by parties and election systems or really at the end of the day by capitalism?

i used vague phrasings there to highlight that it's not as if this system has to exactly be the soviet union or china,
but it is as if when you remove less representative choices from the ballots (and/or workplaces) and only allow choices that represent the people, the actual people, everyone would think that was better no matter what the quality of the candidates was.

it's hard to see what other places this can really lead.






the qanon and fox phenomenon is scary


in the end i don't really /want/ to have to be the expert for other people telling them how to do things or how to understand things or how to investigate things. not if it's possible for them to have that agency themselves



> * damn. there's no better argument for communism than showing that it's way more popular to have power to the people than making sure good people are appointed or elected. i thought stalinism showed that having skilled/'smart' people in government was the most important thing to have a successful nation. but it may be humans are just too stupid to ever accept experts when they can't investigate that knowledge themselves. it may be the only way is to give power to the people and really hope we will get to a point where average people are smart enough they can each figure out things like climate change, vaccines, and how every computer program works on their own the moment they have a question








=> https://www.marxists.org/archive/trotsky/1938/tp/tp-text.htm
;
:: cr. 1642774391
:: ed.29 1675053960
>> 1674968430 filter
